---
layout: page
title: Contributing to Psychtoolbox
categories: dive-in
---

### How to contribute financially to the development and upkeep of the toolbox

Continued development, improvement, maintenance and support of
Psychtoolbox itself, and also improvement of the various open-source
software components on which Psychtoolbox and other neuroscience toolkits
(e.g., PsychoPy) critically depend, including improvements to the Linux
operating system as the strongest and most high quality foundation for
demanding stimulation and data collection paradigms, requires a lot of
highly qualified and highly focused work.

This work is currently (year 2006 - present) mostly carried out by Mario
Kleiner, who is now employed to do this work by the Medical Innovations
Incubator GmbH (MII) in Tuebingen, Germany ( https://www.mi-incubator.com ).
The MII belongs by 100% to the non-profit foundation for medical
innovations ( http://www.mi-foundation.org ) in Tuebingen.

In order to fund Mario's work and provide him with the resources to do
this job, the MII offers different types of paid services around
Psychtoolbox and the use of Linux for neuroscience, among them a
"Psychtoolbox community membership with priority support".

Your lab can now financially contribute to Psychtoolbox sustainability,
upkeep and continued improvement, by once a year buying such a community
membership for a modest fee. This membership entitles you to some
priority support for questions regarding efficient use of Psychtoolbox,
questions regarding the resolution of issues you may have with it, fixing
of bugs you may encounter, and feature requests. MII also offers paid
feature development and other commercial services.

Please visit the following website, operated by MII, for our offering of
commercial development services, and for the community membership with
paid priority support:


https://www.psychtoolbox.net

The membership allows you to get your voice heard by the developers
regarding future feature development, as well as preferential treatment
on the public Psychtoolbox user forum and GitHub issue tracker. Spare
income generated by your membership fee, that does not have to be used
to process priority requests made individually by you, will be used to
fund general development and upkeep of Psychtoolbox and its ecosystem. In
other words, it contributes to / acts as an insurance that allows
Psychtoolbox to be around and in good shape years into the future.

To clarify: Psychtoolbox itself will stay freely downloadable and useable
by anyone, and stay fully accessible as open-source software, by anyone
for any purpose. Anybody able and willing to contribute code and ideas of
sufficiently high quality is invited to contribute to the open-source
code, the documentation on this public community website and Wiki, and to
participate and help each other on the public community forum.

Faster support on the forum or the bug trackers, or of any support at all
in times of high developer workload will however be reserved to paying
community members.

Thanks for your participation and support!

### How to help develop the toolbox

With Psychtoolbox-3 we have moved to an open source development model, and we
welcome contributions from users like yourself. If you improve a particular M
file in the Psychtoolbox, we'll want to incorporate your improved version into
the toolbox. Just send us a patch or a pull request in Github against the
[psychtoolbox-3/psychtoolbox-3](https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3)
repo.

### How to help impove the website

We welcome user contributions and improvements to this website.

Adding material to the wiki portion only requires a GitHub login. You are
encouraged to add FAQ entries there concerning common issues, programming
pitfalls, or reports about hardware.

To improve the website itself please click the "Edit and fork this page" below
and send us a pull request with your changes.

The website is auto-generated from markdown text in the
[psychtoolbox-3/psychtoolbox-3.github.com](https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3.github.com)
repo.


* * *

When you get (or just see) a particularly helpful answer on the forum,
we'll all be grateful if you would add it to the [Psychtoolbox FAQ](https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/wiki/FAQ)
to everyone's benefit. You may want to edit it a bit, deleting the
irrelevant and perhaps making the relevant context more explicit. 

