requirements.markdown, before:

---
layout: page
title: System Requirements
categories: getting-started
---

#### Contents

-  TOC be here
{:toc #toc}
{::options auto_ids="true" toc_levels="2..3"/}


Short version
-------------

-   *Operating system:*

    GNU Linux is strongly recommended. Also works on Apple Mac OS X (Intel) and Microsoft
    Windows (Intel), but will be much less well supported by the developers and may have
    restrictions in functionality, performance and precision in some features, compared to
    Psychtoolbox running on a modern Linux distribution.

-   *Runtime environment:*

    64-Bit Matlab Version 7.4 R2007a or later, also GNU Octave version 3.2 or later on
    Linux and 64-Bit Octave version 3.8.x on OS X.

-   *Graphics card:*

    Recommended are any OpenGL 2.1 or better capable GPUs from AMD or NVidia.
    Modern Intel HD-Series graphics cards should work for moderately complex
    workloads on Linux. More recent OpenGL-3/4 GPUs may expose additional useful
    features. The absolute minimum requirement is OpenGL-1.2 support, but
    functionality and performance will be limited with such old GPUs. 

    Do not buy PC laptops with hybrid-graphics, e.g., with NVidia Optimus
    technology! Their graphics timing behaviour will likely be wrong and there
    is no known way to fix this in software at this point in time.

-   *Sound card:*

    On Linux and OS X, any card supported by the operating system should work
    well. On Windows, an ASIO capable audio card is absolutely required for
    research grade timing precision and low-latency.


Operating systems
-----------------

### Linux

GNU/Linux is fully supported on Intel compatible PCs and Apple Macintosh
computers under

-  Matlab 64-bit. Currently tested with release v7.14 R2012a.
-  GNU Octave 3.8 (32-bit and 64-bit).
-  Additionally Psychtoolbox from NeuroDebian supports whatever version
   of GNU Octave ships with your distribution, e.g., Octave 3.6, 3.4 or 3.2
   on older distributions.

Psychtoolbox should run well on any recent Linux distribution. Testing
and development however occurs mainly on the most recent Ubuntu Linux
releases or flavors of them like e.g., KUbuntu, XUbuntu, LUbuntu ...

It is recommended to keep up with the latest distribution releases or to stick
to the latest long-term support (LTS) Ubuntu release, currently 14.04-LTS.

The [NeuroDebian project][neurodebian] is an effort to provide convenient
access to neuroscience-related software on the Debian and Ubuntu Linux
distributions. The NeuroDebian APT archives include a Psychtoolbox snapshot
release, which has been packaged to be ready-to-use with GNU Octave.

Recently NeuroDebian has begun to curate open-source packages [for Matlab as
well][neurodebian-matlab], and since provides two sets of packages, one for
Octave and one for Matlab.

For details on these options, see the [Linux installation instructions][linux-install].

We generally recommend Linux as the operating system of choice for
demanding experimental setups, which require the highest timing
precision, precision for color or luminance displays, general
performance and flexibility. Our support for fixing bugs and other
issues on other operating systems than Linux will be very limited.

### Apple Macintosh

Psychtoolbox is also being developed and tested under Apple Mac OS X.
Psychtoolbox should work on

-   64-bit Matlab on OS X 10.8 "Mountain Lion" and later. Tested with R2012a.
-   64-bit Octave v3.8 on OS X 10.8 "Mountain Lion" and later

Regular testing currently only happens on the latest version of OS X 10.9
“Mavericks” with 64-Bit Octave 3.8.0, and with 64-bit Matlab R2012a. This is
the only marginally supported version of OS X at this point in time.

The current toolbox version 3.0.12 releases do not work under OS X 10.7
or earlier anymore. The last version that worked on OS X 10.6 and 10.7 was
v3.0.11. The last version that worked on OS X 10.4 and 10.5 and also
with 32-Bit versions of Matlab was v3.0.10. Those old and unsupported
versions of Psychtoolbox can be downloaded by specifying the special `flavor`
parameter `Psychtoolbox-3.0.11` or `Psychtoolbox-3.0.10` in our [`DownloadPsychtoolbox`][current-installer]
downloader script.

The last version that worked on 10.3 can be downloaded by
specifying the special `flavor` parameter `Psychtoolbox-3.0.8-PreTiger`
in our [`DownloadLegacyPsychtoolbox`][legacy-installer] legacy downloader script.

The PowerPC platform is no longer supported by the version 3.0.10
Psychtoolbox. If you need to use a PowerPC machine, stick to version
3.0.9.

In general, operating system versions 10.4 “Tiger” and 10.6 “Snow
Leopard” seem to be relatively unproblematic in use, i.e., most of the
many operating system bugs we found now have workarounds implemented in
Psychtoolbox. 10.5 “Leopard” was a rather buggy operating system,
especially for multi-display stimulus presentation and stereoscopic
stimulus presentation. 10.7 “Lion” and later mostly has restrictions in
the precision for visual stimulus timestamping due to various bugs in the
operating system. Please install the Psychtoolbox kernel driver to
resolve some of these issues (see [PsychtoolboxKernelDriver][docs-kerneldriver] or 
`>> help PsychtoolboxKernelDriver`).

### Windows

Psychtoolbox should work on

-   Matlab 64-bit. Currently tested with release 7.14 R2012a.

    External requirements: Microsoft C runtime and GStreamer

If you choose to use Matlab, you may need to install Microsoft Visual C runtime
libraries to make it work, specifically `vcredist_x64.exe`. The installer should
give you instructions on how to do that if necessary.

Psychtoolbox-3 still runs under Microsoft Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7
and Windows 8, but we don't test for compatibility with any system but Windows 7,
and won't provide any bug fixes or troubleshooting help for any issues that can't
be shown to be also present on Windows 7. Specifically, moving away from Windows XP
and Vista is strongly recommended.

We do aim to keep the toolbox working under these and future versions of
Windows, but full support for all features is a lower priority for us
than Linux.

As of December 1, 2009, Windows Vista and Windows-7 have been tested for
basic compatibility with PTB-3. Precision of sound presentation hasn’t
been tested at all due to lack of suitable testing equipment. Test of
visual stimulus presentation on 3 test setups showed somewhat mixed
results, especially dual display presentation and presentation timing
were rather disappointing. We are aware that many people do run the
toolbox under Vista or Windows 7 and there were not many reports of
timing trouble so far.

We cannot however recommend Window 7 at all for dual-display stereo
stimulus presentation or for tasks with a need for high visual timing
precision. For some caveats with respect to Vista and later see [our FAQ
entry about Vista and Windows-7][faqvista]. These problems may be even worse
with Windows 8, although no systematic testing has been performed by us so far.

All in all you are worse off with Vista and later than with XP, so there is
no reason to switch to it. Those systems seem to provide less performance
than XP while at the same time posing higher hardware requirements. As Windows XP
itself is no longer supported as of Psychtoolbox version 3.0.12 we recommend
switching to a modern version of Linux, e.g., a flavor of Ubuntu 14.04-LTS.

Additional software
-------------------

#### Multimedia engine: GStreamer 1.x required

Installation of GStreamer version 1.0 or later is mandatory for movie playback,
movie recording, video capture and video recording. Multimedia functions won't
work on **Windows** or **OSX** without GStreamer being installed.

On **Linux** you also need GStreamer, but GStreamer is a de-facto standard
component that ships with all modern Linux distributions.

See [GStreamer][docs-gstreamer] (or `>> help GStreamer`) for installation
instructions for the different systems.

Basic hardware requirements
---------------------------

-   Intel PCs: Any Intel-compatible PC that is capable of running the
    64-bit versions of Microsoft Windows XP/Vista/Windows-7/Windows-8
    or the 32-bit or 64-bit versions of GNU/Linux.

-   Intel Macs: Any Intel-based Macintosh computer that is capable of
    running 64-Bit OS X 10.8 “Mavericks” or later, or 32/64 Bit GNU/Linux.

-   The Psychtoolbox distributed by the Debian project also supports
    other processor architectures, e.g., PowerPC, ARM, MIPS, Sun
    UltraSparc, IBM S/360 and some others. However, only the Intel builds
    receive testing and support from us.

Graphics hardware requirements
------------------------------

Basic Psychtoolbox functions should work on any OpenGL 1.2 capable
graphics card with at least 16 MB of video ram (VRAM). Fast stimulus
drawing and use of the more advanced features requires recent graphics
hardware. However, we do recommend at least OpenGL 2.1 capable graphics
hardware for full functionality and good performance.

In general, you should not try to skimp on the GPU, as performance of
your stimulus script and the types of visual stimuli you can create with
ease will depend much more on the horse power and features of your GPU
than on the performance of your CPU.

If you want to use all Psychtoolbox features at full performance and
precision, make sure to get a recent Direct3D 10 or 11 capable (a.k.a.
OpenGL 3 or 4 capable) graphics card from NVidia or AMD/ATI. Almost all
cards of the NVidia GeForce 8 series and later (e.g., 8600, 8800, 9600,
9800, GTX 280 etc.), as well as all cards of the AMD/ATI Radeon HD series
and later (HD 2400, 2600, 3000 series, 4000 series, etc.) and their corresponding
counterparts from the NVidia Quadro series and ATI FireGL / FirePro line
of cards are technically state-of-the-art and Psychtoolbox can take full
advantage of their features.

The latest generation of integrated Intel HD graphics cards, e.g., Intel HD
2000, HD 3000, as found in many modern “Intel Core” processors, provide decent
functionality, accuracy and performance for not too demanding tasks. They are
OpenGL-3 / Direct3D-10 compliant. Numeric precision is on par with recent
NVidia or AMD cards for most (but not all) accuracy tests that have been
executed on a Intel HD card under Linux. Absolute graphics performance is of
course significantly lower than that of current discrete NVidia or AMD cards.
But for not too demanding visual stimulation paradigms, these cards are now
somewhat suitable.

Older Intel graphics cards are problematic for all but the most trivial visual
stimulation tasks: While the Intel GMA X3100 series cards and similar are also
Direct3D 10 compliant in theory, in practice they suffer from limitations.
Users of Intel-based Macs should be aware that some Macs (e.g., old Intel
Mac Book) use a *built-in Intel GMA* graphics adaptor. The GPUs of the GMA-950
series are known to have *very low graphics performance* and a *very restricted
feature set*. They are cheap and sub-standard by any definition. See [this
Wikipedia article][gma950] for further information.

Products from Matrox, Via and S3 or from other niche vendors are not
recommended. As Matrox and S3 seem to have mostly retreated from the 3D
graphics market, most of their products are not a good choice for OpenGL
based applications like Psychtoolbox. Even the products that nominally
claim to support hardware accelerated OpenGL, have a pretty limited
feature set and performance.

For dual-display work (e.g., binocular stereo stimulation), we strongly
recommend using dual-head or multi-head graphics adapters (i.e., *one*
card with two or more output connectors) instead of multiple separate
adapters. We expect dual/multi-head single-card performance to be higher
and the likelihood of graphics driver bugs to be lower. While separate
cards may work, we do not guarantee this and do not provide any support
for troubleshooting. Note that stereo work may benefit from the display
synchrony provided by some of the dual-head cards. Synchrony is usually
hard to achieve with separate cards. We also recommend to avoid Mac OS X
for dual display real-time stimulus presentation, as Apple seems to be
mostly incapable of and uninterested in implementing decent support for
high performance, tear-free dual display support. For static stimuli or
use as a control monitor, OS X may be good enough.

  [linux-install]: /download#Linux
  [legacy-installer]: https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/master/Psychtoolbox/DownloadLegacyPsychtoolbox.m
  [current-installer]: https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/master/Psychtoolbox/DownloadPsychtoolbox.m
  [neurodebian]: http://neuro.debian.net
  [neurodebian-matlab]: http://neuro.debian.net/proj_matlab.html
  [gstreamer]: http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org
  [docs-gstreamer]: http://docs.psychtoolbox.org/Gstreamer
  [docs-kerneldriver]: http://docs.psychtoolbox.org/PsychtoolboxKernelDriver
  [c++ runtime]: http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=766A6AF7-EC73-40FF-B072-9112BAB119C2&displaylang=en#filelist
  [faqvista]: http://psychtoolbox.org/FaqVista
  [gma950]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GMA_950
  [gfxhw]: /graphics-requirements

Commit message:

System requirements: Clarify Intel only on Linux ok, some other cleanups.

requirements.markdown, after:

---
layout: page
title: System Requirements
categories: getting-started
---

#### Contents

-  TOC be here
{:toc #toc}
{::options auto_ids="true" toc_levels="2..3"/}


Short version
-------------

-   *Operating system:*

    GNU Linux is strongly recommended. Also works on Apple Mac OS X (Intel) and Microsoft
    Windows (Intel), but will be much less well supported by the developers and may have
    restrictions in functionality, performance and precision in some features, compared to
    Psychtoolbox running on a modern Linux distribution.

-   *Runtime environment:*

    64-Bit Matlab Version 7.4 R2007a or later, also GNU Octave version 3.2 or later on
    Linux and 64-Bit Octave version 3.8.x on OS X.

-   *Graphics card:*

    Recommended are any OpenGL 2.1 or better capable GPUs from AMD or NVidia.
    Modern Intel HD-Series graphics cards should work for moderately complex
    workloads on Linux. More recent OpenGL-3/4 GPUs may expose additional useful
    features. The absolute minimum requirement is OpenGL-1.2 support, but
    functionality and performance will be limited with such old GPUs. 

    Do not buy PC laptops with hybrid-graphics, e.g., with NVidia Optimus
    technology! Their graphics timing behaviour will likely be wrong and there
    is no known way to fix this in software at this point in time.

-   *Sound card:*

    On Linux and OS X, any card supported by the operating system should work
    well. On Windows, an ASIO capable audio card is absolutely required for
    research grade timing precision and low-latency.


Operating systems
-----------------

### Linux

GNU/Linux is fully supported on Intel compatible PCs and Apple Macintosh
computers under

-  Matlab 64-bit. Currently tested with release v7.14 R2012a.
-  GNU Octave 3.8 (32-bit and 64-bit).
-  Additionally Psychtoolbox from NeuroDebian supports whatever version
   of GNU Octave ships with your distribution, e.g., Octave 3.6, 3.4 or 3.2
   on older distributions.

Psychtoolbox should run well on any recent Linux distribution. Testing
and development however occurs mainly on the most recent Ubuntu Linux
releases or flavors of them like e.g., KUbuntu, XUbuntu, LUbuntu ...

It is recommended to keep up with the latest distribution releases or to stick
to the latest long-term support (LTS) Ubuntu release, currently 14.04-LTS.

The [NeuroDebian project][neurodebian] is an effort to provide convenient
access to neuroscience-related software on the Debian and Ubuntu Linux
distributions. The NeuroDebian APT archives include a Psychtoolbox snapshot
release, which has been packaged to be ready-to-use with GNU Octave.

Recently NeuroDebian has begun to curate open-source packages [for Matlab as
well][neurodebian-matlab], and since provides two sets of packages, one for
Octave ("octave-psychtoolbox-3") and one for Matlab ("matlab-psychtoolbox-3").

For details on these options, see the [Linux installation instructions][linux-install].

We generally recommend Linux as the operating system of choice for
demanding experimental setups, which require the highest timing
precision, precision for color or luminance displays, general
performance and flexibility. Our support for fixing bugs and other
issues on other operating systems than Linux will be very limited.

### Apple Macintosh

Psychtoolbox is also being developed and tested under Apple Mac OS X.
Psychtoolbox should work on

-   64-bit Matlab on OS X 10.8 "Mountain Lion" and later. Tested with R2012a.
-   64-bit Octave v3.8 on OS X 10.8 "Mountain Lion" and later

Regular testing currently only happens on the latest version of OS X 10.9
“Mavericks” with 64-Bit Octave 3.8.0, and with 64-bit Matlab R2012a. This is
the only marginally supported version of OS X at this point in time.

The current toolbox version 3.0.12 releases do not work under OS X 10.7
or earlier anymore. The last version that worked on OS X 10.6 and 10.7 was
v3.0.11. The last version that worked on OS X 10.4 and 10.5 and also
with 32-Bit versions of Matlab was v3.0.10. Those old and unsupported
versions of Psychtoolbox can be downloaded by specifying the special `flavor`
parameter `Psychtoolbox-3.0.11` or `Psychtoolbox-3.0.10` in our [`DownloadPsychtoolbox`][current-installer]
downloader script.

The last version that worked on 10.3 can be downloaded by
specifying the special `flavor` parameter `Psychtoolbox-3.0.8-PreTiger`
in our [`DownloadLegacyPsychtoolbox`][legacy-installer] legacy downloader script.

The PowerPC platform is no longer supported by the version 3.0.10
Psychtoolbox. If you need to use a PowerPC machine, stick to version
3.0.9.

In general, operating system versions 10.4 “Tiger” and 10.6 “Snow
Leopard” seem to be relatively unproblematic in use, i.e., most of the
many operating system bugs we found now have workarounds implemented in
Psychtoolbox. 10.5 “Leopard” was a rather buggy operating system,
especially for multi-display stimulus presentation and stereoscopic
stimulus presentation. 10.7 “Lion” and later mostly has restrictions in
the precision for visual stimulus timestamping due to various bugs in the
operating system. Please install the Psychtoolbox kernel driver to
resolve some of these issues (see [PsychtoolboxKernelDriver][docs-kerneldriver] or 
`>> help PsychtoolboxKernelDriver`).

### Windows

Psychtoolbox should work on

-   Matlab 64-bit. Currently tested with release 7.14 R2012a.

    External requirements: Microsoft C runtime and GStreamer

If you choose to use Matlab, you may need to install Microsoft Visual C runtime
libraries to make it work, specifically `vcredist_x64.exe`. The installer should
give you instructions on how to do that if necessary.

Psychtoolbox-3 still runs under Microsoft Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7
and Windows 8, but we don't test for compatibility with any system but Windows 7,
and won't provide any bug fixes or troubleshooting help for any issues that can't
be shown to be also present on Windows 7. Specifically, moving away from Windows XP
and Vista is strongly recommended.

We do aim to keep the toolbox working under these and future versions of
Windows, but full support for all features is a lower priority for us
than Linux.

As of December 1, 2009, Windows Vista and Windows-7 have been tested for
basic compatibility with PTB-3. Precision of sound presentation hasn’t
been tested at all due to lack of suitable testing equipment. Test of
visual stimulus presentation on 3 test setups showed somewhat mixed
results, especially dual display presentation and presentation timing
were rather disappointing. We are aware that many people do run the
toolbox under Vista or Windows 7 and there were not many reports of
timing trouble so far.

We cannot however recommend Window 7 at all for dual-display stereo
stimulus presentation or for tasks with a need for high visual timing
precision. For some caveats with respect to Vista and later see [our FAQ
entry about Vista and Windows-7][faqvista]. These problems may be even worse
with Windows 8, although no systematic testing has been performed by us so far.

All in all you are worse off with Vista and later than with XP, so there is
no reason to switch to it. Those systems seem to provide less performance
than XP while at the same time posing higher hardware requirements. As Windows XP
itself is no longer supported as of Psychtoolbox version 3.0.12 we recommend
switching to a modern version of Linux, e.g., a flavor of Ubuntu 14.04-LTS.

Additional software
-------------------

#### Multimedia engine: GStreamer 1.x required

Installation of GStreamer version 1.0 or later is mandatory for movie playback,
movie recording, video capture and video recording. Multimedia functions won't
work on **Windows** or **OSX** without GStreamer being installed.

On **Linux** you also need GStreamer, but GStreamer is a de-facto standard
component that ships with all modern Linux distributions.

See [GStreamer][docs-gstreamer] (or `>> help GStreamer`) for installation
instructions for the different systems.

Basic hardware requirements
---------------------------

-   Intel PCs: Any Intel-compatible PC that is capable of running the
    64-bit versions of Microsoft Windows XP/Vista/Windows-7/Windows-8
    or the 32-bit or 64-bit versions of GNU/Linux.

-   Intel Macs: Any Intel-based Macintosh computer that is capable of
    running 64-Bit OS X 10.8 “Mavericks” or later, or 32/64 Bit GNU/Linux.

-   The Psychtoolbox distributed by the Debian project also supports
    other processor architectures, e.g., PowerPC, ARM, MIPS, Sun
    UltraSparc, IBM S/360 and some others. However, only the Intel builds
    receive testing and support from us.

Graphics hardware requirements
------------------------------

Basic Psychtoolbox functions should work on any OpenGL 1.2 capable
graphics card with at least 16 MB of video ram (VRAM). Fast stimulus
drawing and use of the more advanced features requires recent graphics
hardware. However, we do recommend at least OpenGL 2.1 capable graphics
hardware for full functionality and good performance.

In general, you should not try to skimp on the GPU, as performance of
your stimulus script and the types of visual stimuli you can create with
ease will depend much more on the horse power and features of your GPU
than on the performance of your CPU.

If you want to use all Psychtoolbox features at full performance and
precision, make sure to get a recent Direct3D 10 or 11 capable (a.k.a.
OpenGL 3 or 4 capable) graphics card from NVidia or AMD/ATI. Almost all
cards of the NVidia GeForce 8 series and later (e.g., 8600, 8800, 9600,
9800, GTX 280 etc.), as well as all cards of the AMD/ATI Radeon HD series
and later (HD 2400, 2600, 3000 series, 4000 series, etc.) and their corresponding
counterparts from the NVidia Quadro series and ATI FireGL / FirePro line
of cards are technically state-of-the-art and Psychtoolbox can take full
advantage of their features.

The latest generation of integrated Intel HD graphics cards, e.g., Intel HD
2000, HD 3000, as found in many modern “Intel Core” processors, provide decent
functionality, accuracy and performance for not too demanding tasks *on Linux*.
*Use on other operating systems than Linux might go much less well*. These cards
are OpenGL-3 / Direct3D-10 compliant. Numeric precision is on par with recent
NVidia or AMD cards for most (but not all) accuracy tests that have been
executed on a Intel HD card under Linux. Absolute graphics performance is of
course significantly lower than that of current discrete NVidia or AMD cards.
But for not too demanding visual stimulation paradigms, these cards are now
somewhat suitable.

Older Intel graphics cards are problematic for all but the most trivial visual
stimulation tasks: While the Intel GMA X3100 series cards and similar are also
Direct3D 10 compliant in theory, in practice they suffer from limitations.
Users of Intel-based Macs should be aware that some Macs (e.g., old Intel
Mac Book) use a *built-in Intel GMA* graphics adaptor. The GPUs of the GMA-950
series are known to have *very low graphics performance* and a *very restricted
feature set*. They are cheap and sub-standard by any definition. See [this
Wikipedia article][gma950] for further information.

Products from Matrox, Via and S3 or from other niche vendors are not
recommended. As Matrox and S3 seem to have mostly retreated from the 3D
graphics market, most of their products are not a good choice for OpenGL
based applications like Psychtoolbox. Even the products that nominally
claim to support hardware accelerated OpenGL, have a pretty limited
feature set and performance.

For dual-display work (e.g., binocular stereo stimulation), we strongly
recommend using dual-head or multi-head graphics adapters (i.e., *one*
card with two or more output connectors) instead of multiple separate
adapters. We expect dual/multi-head single-card performance to be higher
and the likelihood of graphics driver bugs to be lower. While separate
cards may work, we do not guarantee this and do not provide any support
for troubleshooting. Note that stereo work may benefit from the display
synchrony provided by some of the dual-head cards. Synchrony is usually
hard to achieve with separate cards. We also recommend to avoid Mac OS X
for dual display real-time stimulus presentation, as Apple seems to be
mostly incapable of and uninterested in implementing decent support for
high performance, tear-free dual display support. For static stimuli or
use as a control monitor, OS X may be good enough.

  [linux-install]: /download#Linux
  [legacy-installer]: https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/master/Psychtoolbox/DownloadLegacyPsychtoolbox.m
  [current-installer]: https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/master/Psychtoolbox/DownloadPsychtoolbox.m
  [neurodebian]: http://neuro.debian.net
  [neurodebian-matlab]: http://neuro.debian.net/proj_matlab.html
  [gstreamer]: http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org
  [docs-gstreamer]: http://docs.psychtoolbox.org/Gstreamer
  [docs-kerneldriver]: http://docs.psychtoolbox.org/PsychtoolboxKernelDriver
  [c++ runtime]: http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=766A6AF7-EC73-40FF-B072-9112BAB119C2&displaylang=en#filelist
  [faqvista]: http://psychtoolbox.org/FaqVista
  [gma950]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GMA_950
  [gfxhw]: /graphics-requirements
