---
layout: post
title: Online function reference available
category: news
author: kleinerm
---

Thanks to the clever and enthusiastic work of Tobias Wolf, the help
texts of Psychtoolbox are now also available online:

<http://docs.psychtoolbox.org>

The same link is available from the top page of the Wiki as “Function
reference”.

The reference is mostly automatically generated by a clever Python
script that we will occassionally run over the whole ‘beta’
distribution. The script automatically extracts, formats, hyperlinks and
uploads the help content from all Psychtoolbox M-Files and the online
help of most MEX files to the documentation Wiki.

The online reference is imho much more easily readable/browseable due to
all the nice clickable cross-links and the much nicer formatting. The
content however is almost the same as what you get from your Matlab
console by typing help Psychtoolbox, help GetChar, Screen, Screen
OpenWindow? etc. Unfortunately there don’t exist any scripts that
automatically rewrite documentation :-(

The script is clever but it has the hard job of turning an organically
grown mass of help texts, written by many different people and as many
different opinions on formatting/writing style but without any formal
markup language, into something half-way structured ;-) – iow.
formatting glitches are to be expected. If you find small glitches, take
them as beautful examples of modern art. If you are really annoyed by
some formatting, feel free to find out what goes wrong and contribute
fixes to the documentation or even better, volunteer to be the one with
good taste and make it your personal mission to beautify our
documentation.
