---
layout: post
title: PTB beta release 2011-08-24 (SVN Revision 2193)
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

A summary of major improvements, features, bug fixes. For details,
please review the [detailed change
log](http://code.google.com/p/psychtoolbox-3/source/detail?r=2276).

### `PsychHID` support for Linux and Windows

-   `KbQueueXXX` support for both systems. Linux allows multiple
    keyboard queues, one for each individually adressable keyboard.
    Windows only allows one queue for the system keyboard. In theory it
    allows also multiple queues, but for that it would need to enumerate
    separate keyboards separately. However, Microsoft has removed this
    function in their DirectInput implementation for Windows-XP and
    later. Thanks Microsoft!

-   `KbCheck` support for individual keyboards on Linux.

-   `GetMouse/SetMouse/ShowCursor/HideCursor` support for multiple
    independent mice/pointers on Linux.

-   Touchpad, touch tablet, digitizer tablet, gamepad, joystick support
    on Linux. Tested with some usb joystick and a Wacom CintiQ tablet.

-   USB low-level control support (control transfers) for Linux and
    Windows. Tested with `ColorCal2` driver for Linux, but not tested at
    all on Windows.

-   USB-HID device enumeration and control (HID transfers a la
    `Set/GetReport`) for HID devices. This should make the DAQ toolbox
    work cross-platform but DAQ toolbox is untested due to lack of
    hardware.

### Screen

Some fixes for text renderer and text renderer plugin, and small
improvements.

### OpenAL

OpenAL 3D sound support now also implemented for Linux.

### Other

-   Improvements to fitting routines etc. in `PsychColorimetric` folder
    by David Brainard.

-   Fixes and improvements and some staircase functions by Diederick
    Niehorster.

-   Other smallish bits and bytes.
