---
layout: post
title: PTB beta release 2011-11-29 (SVN Revision 2381)
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

For details, please review the [detailed change
log](http://code.google.com/p/psychtoolbox-3/source/detail?r=2381).

No new features in this release, just a host of bug fixes, compatibility
fixes and workarounds for broken operating systems, device drivers and
other hardware.

### Misc fixes:

-   `PsychHID`: Compatibility and performance fixes of Linux/Windows
    version with OS/X version. Now should hopefully behave identically
    and support HID `Set/GetReport` properly.

-   `PsychRTBox`: Compatibility fixes with latest boxes and firmware.

-   `PsychDataPixx`: Handle GPUs which have gamma tables with more than
    256 slots, e.g., NVidia QuadroFX-3800 on Linux.

-   `DowloadAdditionsForNeuroDebian`: On Octave + Linux, also download
    `DataPixx` driver.

-   `LoadIdentityClut`: Handle NVidia GPUs with more than 256 gamma
    table slots, e.g., pro GPUs on Linux.

### Screen on Linux:

-   Fix multi-display detection and setup for ZaphodHead multi-display
    on multi-x-screen configurations. Make a reasonable assignment of
    RandR crtcs and physical GPU crtcs

-   Fix tiny bugs in new RandR multi-display setup code.

-   RandR compatibility fixes for NVidia GPUs with binary blob driver:
    The proprietary NVidia driver lies to us: It claims full RandR V1.2
    support, but only supports a subset of functions. E.g., it fails
    miserably with video modeline queries and get/set gamma tables. Add
    detection code to detect this and use a good’ol
    XF86VideoModeExtensions fallback.

-   Handle GPUs with gamma tables with more than 256 slots correctly.
    NVidia pro class GPUs, e.g., QuadroFX-3800 have 2048 slots, god
    knows why. Anyway…

### Screen on MacOS/X

Try to work around broken VBL-IRQ mechanism on OS/X 10.7 Lion. Test by
users pending. Either this fixes it, or it is “game over” for VBL-IRQ
timestamping on Apple hardware.
