---
layout: post
title: PTB beta release 2011-10-20 (SVN Revision 2337)
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

For details, please review the [detailed change
log](http://code.google.com/p/psychtoolbox-3/source/detail?r=2337).

Release highlights:

### Misc improvements, bug fixes, and new functions:

-   New function `DownloadAdditionsForNeuroDebian` allows to fetch and
    install MEX files for Matlab on Linux on top of an existing
    octave-psychtoolbox3 installation from NeuroDebian This as a
    stop-gap measure until NeuroDebian provides support for Matlab in
    addition to support for Octave. Also can fetch some additional
    Octave mex files which can’t be distributed by NeuroDebian due to
    license incompatibilities, e.g., Eyelink().

-   Make Windows PTB even more robust against broken computer clocks
    under MS-Windows.

-   The PortAudio driver plugin DLL for Windows with compiled in ASIO
    backend support is now included in Psychtoolbox by default. This
    spares users the need to download and install the file separately
    from our Wiki. Possible due to our license change from GPLv2 to
    “mostly MIT”.

-   Fix numeric keypad mapping on Windows with `PsychHID`.

-   `KbName` now maps basically all keys on all operating systems.

-   Compatibility fixes for `PsychRTBox`, so it works without statistics
    toolbox of Matlab.

-   Compatibility fixes for Matlab R2011b

-   Improved unit tests, staircase procedures and other useful helper
    functions by Diederick Niehorster.

-   Improved color calibration/handling routines by David Brainard.

-   New function `KbKeysAction` - User contribution.

-   Various bug fixes, some performance improvements.

### Screen

-   Sphereprojection shader improved for display undistortion on
    spherical display surfaces via image processing pipeline -\> User
    contribution.

-   Bugfixes for text drawing in stereomodes 4,5 (Dual display / desktop
    spanning) on Linux and OS/X

-   Support for 16 bit signed normalized framebuffers and textures as
    fallback for systems which don’t have 16 bpc float support. Allows
    15 bit precision for framebuffers on such systems.

-   Fix `ShowCursor()` / `HideCursor()` for Ubuntu Linux 11.10 and
    later.

-   OS/X Some new workarounds for Apple’s broken operating system.

-   OS/X: `Screen('ConfigureDisplay', 'Brightness', ...)` allows to
    query/set brightness of attached displays. In theory. In practice
    most displays don’t support this, or OS/X support is buggy to the
    point of being unuseable.

-   Linux: Supports now completely asynchronous flip timestamp queries
    and logging via use of the `INTEL_swap_events` extension with the
    FOSS graphics stack.

### Linux: Large number of improvements by use of XRandR extension:

-   Multi display handling, multi display resync, multi-display
    timestamping and multi-display swapping improved. Various other
    bonus features which are not possible on other operating systems.

-   10 Bit native framebuffer improvements on ATI FireGL series GPU’s.
    Allows to workaround broken proprietary ATI Catalyst drivers and
    enable the 10 bit framebuffers on CRT monitors.

-   `Screen('ConfigureDisplay')` allows fine grained low-level control
    over video mode, scanout viewport and other properties of video
    outputs. Screen(‘Resolution’), Screen(‘Resolutions’) fully
    implemented.
