---
layout: post
title: PTB beta release 2012-1-7 (SVN Revision 2423)
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

For details, please review the [detailed change
log](http://code.google.com/p/psychtoolbox-3/source/detail?r=2423).

### All systems:

-   Bugfixes.

-   Screen(‘AsyncFlipXXX’) functions greatly improved. Now much more
    convenient and child-proof to use. Now allow use of almost all
    Screen() drawing functions in parallel to a pending async-flip – for
    enhanced parallelism. New implemenation can be disabled via a
    ‘ConserveVRAM’ preference setting. Associated tests AsyncFlipTest,
    MultiWindowLockStepTest demonstrate usage and performance.

-   Screen GPU rendertime measurements improved. Now more flexible
    (Screen(‘GetWindowInfo’, …) infotypes 5 and 6) Can start/stop/start…
    measurement multiple times per frame for fine-grained benchmarking.

-   Handling of window geometry in stereo modes and special display
    modes, e.g., Bits+/DataPixx Color++/C48 mode improved.

-   Screen now enables fast offscreen window support by default on GPUs
    which support it –\> More efficient, flexible, robust Offscreen
    window support. So far this was an opt-in, now it is an opt-out via
    a new ‘ConserveVRAM’ setting.

-   Some improvements to video capture engine.

-   moglmorpher() can now dynamically delete meshes as well, not only
    add new ones.

-   PsychRTBox driver now should work with latest RTBox models &
    firmware, although untested.

-   Some demos refined.

### OS/X:

A new workaround for OS/X 10.7 Lions broken vblank irq timestamping is
in place. We fall back to CoreVideo display link timestamping. This
doesn’t work well at all on 10.4 Tiger, which is why it gets only
enabled on 10.7+ systems. All older systems use our proven and robust
vblank irq timestamping. Or the even more robust and precise
beamposition timestamping if it is supported by the OS or by use of the
PsychtoolboxKernelDriver.

### Linux:

-   IOPort / PsychRTBox / CMUBox response button box drivers can now
    auto-enable low-latency mode on FTDI usb-serial ports, no need for
    user setup anymore.

-   Random improvements, also in documentation.

-   Most important: As part of an improved installer, the new function
    PsychLinuxSetup now configures the system (pending the users
    permission) for root-less operation: Psychtoolbox can use
    realtime-scheduling, beamposition timestamping, special GPU
    features, various optimizations, and access to special research
    hardware, e.g., the products from CRS and VPixx without the need to
    run Matlab or Octave as root user via “sudo”. This should remove
    quite a bit of headaches and increase system security considerably.
