---
layout: post
title: PTB beta release 2012-2-8 (SVN Revision 2450)
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

For details, please review the [detailed change
log](http://code.google.com/p/psychtoolbox-3/source/detail?r=2450).

### Highlight:

Screen() now supports frame-sequential stereo presentation on graphics
card / graphics driver / operating system combos which don’t provide
native OpenGL quad-buffered frame-sequential stereo support. In
stereomode 1 it detects if native support is available and uses it if
possible. Otherwise its own built-in implementation is used. Stereomode
11 always uses the built-in implementation.

Tested and shown to work reasonably well on WinXP, OS/X, Linux with
sufficiently fast gpu & cpu under light load. Robustness of this
built-in method is highly dependent on speed and timing behaviour of the
underlying os and computer / gpu hardware. A native implementation
(e.g., NVidia QuadroFX or AMD Fire gpu’s) is preferrable if available,
but this should be good enough for not too demanding casual stereo
presentation.

### Bugfixes / Tweaks:

-   Fix to PsychtoolboxPostInstallRoutine by Diederick.

-   DrawFormattedText now allows wrapping of Unicode text as well.

-   Screen/Linux: Allow floating slave input devices for use with
    GetMouse().

-   Screen/Linux: Robustness improvement to OML timestamping for
    nouveau.

-   Screen: Some documentation fixes.

-   Screen/Linux: Don’t link directly against libraw1394, only
    indirectly through libdc1394 if libdc1394 needs libraw1394. May or
    may not help with broken Matlab installations on Linux.

-   PsychHID for Windows and Linux: Bugfixes to ‘GetReport’ et al. Does
    no longer enqueue empty hid reports – no buffer overflow anymore.
    Small fixes to error handling.

-   Fix documentation of Quest: Formula in help text was inconsistent
    with formula in actual implementation.

-   Various other small documentation fixes.
