---
layout: post
title: PTB beta release 2012-4-1 (SVN Revision 2540)
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

For more details, please review the [detailed change
log](http://code.google.com/p/psychtoolbox-3/source/detail?r=2540).

### All systems:

-   `PsychPortAudio`: Potential startup latency reduction on all systems
    as now runlevel 1 is used by default. This potentially reduces start
    latency for sound playback at the expense of slightly higher cpu
    load while playback is stopped.

-   Performance improvement to `Screen('MakeTexture')` via new optional
    specialflag 4 – Much faster for all uint8 input textures and for
    Luminance + Alpha and RGB8 textures as created from double() input
    matrices. However, mode 4 requires a GPU with shader support and may
    not work well with scrolling/drifting textures or on a few other
    special cases. It is best used for fast creation of still images.

-   Code cleanup here and there.

-   Some tiny fixes for Octave 3.6 compatibility of M-Files.

-   `DaqAInScanContinue` now can return “live data”. (Untested).

-   `KbCheck`, `KbQueueCheck`, `KbTriggerWait` et al. now support
    handling of mouse, joystick, gamepad and similar devices as mini
    keyboards: Their buttons can be treated as keys on a keyboard and
    queried by the `KbXXX` functions. This allows simplified (ab)use as
    response button devices.

-   Support for procedural visual noise on modern GPUs - Perlin noise
    for fast visual noise generation on supported gpus. Use with
    caution: Perlin noise is not Gaussian noise!

-   Small improvements to `QuestSimulate`: Can now visualize its
    operation.

-   Datapixx mex files updated by `VPixx` to support the `ViewPixx`
    device, e.g., backlight control.

-   `CMUBox` now handles Cedrus Lumina response boxes (Untested).

-   Various other small improvements and some new demos.

### Windows & Linux:

-   GStreamer movie playback engine enhanced with many bug fixes,
    improved features, some new functionality, performance improvements.

### OSX & Linux:

-   Improved realtime scheduling setup for increased robustness of
    timing when many threads are active or system is loaded. OS/X now
    uses Mach realtime scheduling everywhere, not only on master thread.
    Linux has refined priority level setup and uses mutexes with
    priority inheritance.

### Windows:

-   Screen(‘DrawText’) now obeys geometric transformations, e.g., in
    DrawMirroredTextDemo.

-   PsychHID HID device enumeration improved due to upgrade to latest
    HIDAPI.
