---
layout: post
title: Psychtoolbox beta updated
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

Psychtoolbox 3.0.16 Beta update "Burnout" SP2 was released at 26th September 2019.
As usual, the complete development history can be found in our GitHub repository.
The release tag is “PTB_Beta-2019-09-26_V3.0.16”, with the full tree and commit logs under the URL:

<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/tree/PTB_Beta-2019-09-26_V3.0.16>

Please note that as of now, Psychtoolbox 3.0.15 is end-of-life, no longer supported in case of trouble or questions. All documentation on our website will be updated to only help with use of Psychtoolbox 3.0.16.

If you choose to use Psychtoolbox with Matlab then the most well tested Matlab versions on Linux are now R2014b and R2019a. The most well tested Matlab version on MS-Windows and macOS is now R2019a. For best results and support, use R2019a.

This is a minor maintenance release.

## New features and improvements:

### All operating systems:


*   GetSecs('AllClocks'): Optionally return monotonicTime as 4th return argument. Identical to GetSecsTime on Windows and macOS, returns Posix CLOCK_MONOTONIC time on Linux. Allows timestamp remapping / sync with, e.g., Tobii gazetracker SDK.

*   Python port: Allow editable installs. Contributed by Eric Larson.

*   CenterRectOnPoint[d]: Fix ambiguity for 4x4 rect matrices.

*   BackupCluts(): Ignore virtual screen 0 on a MS-Windows multi-display setup. By Ian Andolina.

*   Update some help texts and slightly improve some demos.

*   Misc other stuff.

### Linux:

*   Screen on Linux now supports high precision timestamping with the proprietary NVidia driver for NVidia Volta and Turing gpu's.

### OSX:

*   Allow use with Matlab releases < R2014b under macOS again. Not recommended on Apples current trainwrecks, but reenabled for consistency with Linux and Windows.

Enjoy!
