---
layout: post
title: Psychtoolbox beta updated
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

Psychtoolbox 3.0.16 Beta update "Toiletpaperhamsteridiots" was released at 26th March 2020.
As usual, the complete development history can be found in our GitHub repository.
The release tag is “PTB_Beta-2020-03-26_V3.0.16”, with the full tree and commit logs under the URL:

<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/tree/PTB_Beta-2020-03-26_V3.0.16>

If you choose to use Psychtoolbox with Matlab then the most well tested Matlab versions on Linux are now R2014b and R2019a. The most well tested Matlab version on MS-Windows and macOS is now R2019a. For best results and support, use R2019a.

This release brings minor bug fixes and improvements.


## New features and improvements:

### All operating systems:

- PlayMoviesDemo: Add alpha-blending support for transparent movies.

- Improve help text for Screen Screens?

- PsychPortAudio: Fix start of capture 'capturetime' timestamps in certain exotic conditions.

### Linux:

- Fix default audio input/capture device selection for certain exotic audio input devices which expose separate logical audio devices for playback vs. capture.

- Cut down on chatter if running on latest generations of AMD gpu's with DCN display engine, e.g., AMD Ryzen integrated processor graphics (Raven Ridge / Picasso / Renoir / ...) and AMD Navi family discrete graphics cards. These latest generation DCN display engines are not supported by our bag of low-level tricks, as there is neither need nor benefit. Spare the user from pointing this out with extra debug clutter.

- Fix detection code for VRR capable displays (HDMI VRR and DisplayPort Adaptive Sync / FreeSync). The detection code only probed the first connected display output, regardless into which output the display is plugged in, therefore falsely disabling VRR capable displays from using VRR.

### macOS:

- Fix crash on Screen() reload if GStreamer isn't installed, but libglib is installed by 3rd party, e.g., from HomeBrew.

- SetMouse: Deal better with Retina displays on macOS: At least if a window handle is provided, this should deal with position scaling on Retina displays if not using native Retina resolution on the trainwreck. Not great, but better than nothing.

Enjoy!
