---
layout: post
title: Psychtoolbox beta updated
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

Psychtoolbox 3.0.18 Beta update "Ode to the slacktivists" SP2 was released at 2nd December 2021.
As usual, the complete development history can be found in our GitHub repository.
The release tag is “3.0.18.2”, with the full tree and commit logs under the URL:

<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/tree/3.0.18.2>


## General

- Cleanups and refactoring, mostly irrelevant to end users.

- Various help text and documentation updates.

- Various improvements to demos and tests, done as part of the validation and compatibility work
  for Matlab R2021b on Ubuntu 20.04.3-LTS, MS-Windows 10 21H1 and macOS 10.15.7 Catalina final.
  Sponsored by Mathworks, thanks! (<https://www.mathworks.com/solutions/neuroscience.html>)

- New demo BasicSoundPhaseShiftDemo.m - Realtime phase-shifting of sine wave tones.

## Linux

- Note that modern AMD Polaris graphics cards under Linux 5.14 with the latest AMDVLK v2021.Q4.1
  AMD Vulkan driver now support 16 bpc framebuffers for native 12 bpc output. In principle this
  would also work with earlier AMD Sea Islands and Volcanic Islands gpu's, but needs a custom built
  amdvlk driver, which we have available, but won't provide for free.

- Some diagnostic improvements for pixel identity passthrough.

- Substantial improvements to NVidia Optimus laptop support when using the proprietary NVidia
  OpenGL driver. "help HybridGraphics" for details. Laptops with Intel integrated graphics chips
  and NVidia discrete gpu's should work with proper timing and timestamping now on modern Linux
  distributions like Ubuntu 20.04.3-LTS. AMD Ryzen integrated graphics + NVidia discrete gpu's
  should also work better wrt. quality and timing, although limitations wrt. performance exist with
  AMD's display driver and there might be unknown edge cases with broken visual stimulus onset
  timestamping. I do have some (Linux kernel patch) solution for that, which provides excellent quality.
  That solution is a hack though, and implementing a proper solution for the official Linux kernel
  will take time to implement and get upstreamed, especially with the lack of proper funding. We
  haven't decided if and under what conditions we will provide the inofficial - hacky, but well working -
  solution. The only sure thing is we won't provide it for free.

  **Please note that our general advice is to avoid hybrid graphics dual-gpu laptops. Single gpu
     machines require less setup and have less potential for bugs and complications. Also, on
     Windows, these dual-gpu laptops are pure trouble. These improvements for Linux are just
     to lessen the impact of a bad purchase decision as far as this is possible.**

## macOS

- Switch supported and required Octave version to Octave 6.4. Octave 6.3 will likely continue to work.

- Try to detect if we are running on Apple silicon "M1 SoC" ARM - Macs with Apples proprietary
  gpu. This will enable workarounds that allow Screen() to at least limp along, still with totally
  broken visual stimulation timing and timestamping, but at least getting a picture onto the screen,
  instead of complete failure. Also detect and report macOS variant and version, ie. Intel (supported)
  or ARM M1 SoC (unsupported), macOS 10.15 (supported), macOS 11/12 (unsupported).

- Fix KbQueueCreate() crash if running in a single-threaded host runtime, iow. ``octave-cli``. More
  importantly, this should avoid some keyboard queue crashes under macOS with some Python runtimes.
  Ditto for Screen().

- Note that MoltenVK 1.1.5 should be used for Vulkan on macOS.
  
## Windows

- Switch supported and required Octave version to Octave 6.4. Octave 6.3 will likely continue to work.

- Try to detect Windows version more reliable. Report Windows 11 as officially unsupported/untested.

- Fix for Vulkan display backend for AMD graphics on Windows. Try to handle problems switching to
  "fullscreen exclusive mode" better. Both the latest NVidia and AMD drivers have various bugs and
  issues. We better try to work around them as good as we can, instead of just showing a black
  screen. This is highly fragile under current Windows-10 due to poor graphics driver quality, and
  may result in compromised presentation timing and timestamping. Luckily the only meaningful use
  cases for Vulkan on Windows are HDR-10 display modes atm., so the damage is limited. Our guess
  at the moment is that AMD driver versions older than 20.11.2 may work ok, ie. ones from before
  November 2020. For people who want HDR display with proper timing, upgrading to AMD on Linux is
  recommended.
