---
layout: post
title: Psychtoolbox christmas/spring discount is over
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

Update: The offer is now over, no discount available anymore.

This was another disappointing failure. We sold a total of 45 support
memberships in the time between mid-November and mid-March, which is a
whopping 10% more than in the previous years, at a 34% reduced profit
per license, resulting in a financial loss of 27% compared to the old
pricing. What we would have needed for declaring this a success would
have been way in excess of 1000 sold memberships instead of 45.

So the final conclusion after almost 2.5 years of trying all kind of
incentives is that the paid support membership / community membership
program is a failure and nothing we do can incentivize our users to
behave decent, or even just rational out of pure self-interest. This
even after more than 1000 people confirmed in in-person VSS meetings
and online surveys, that this is what we should do and surely they
will support us financially! I guess this is how our user "community"
expresses sarcasm and I just didn't get the joke.

There just seems to be no meaningful capacity for rational mid- to
long-term thinking in this field, at least not in the majority of
over 99% of our users. A big thank you to the ~ 0.5% of decent and
supportive people out there though! Unfortunately not enough to save
this soft win-win-win approach for everybody to secure funding for
PTBâ€™s future maintenance and development.

We will evaluate new options, but it is time to conclude that we are
out of "carrots" to incentivize people in a soft and friendly way to
behave in their own long-term self-interest.

-mario
