---
layout: post
title: Psychtoolbox beta updated
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

Psychtoolbox 3.0.19 Beta update "Virtuality" SP3 was released at 13th July 2023.
As usual, the complete development history can be found in our GitHub repository.
The release tag is “3.0.19.3”, with the full tree and commit logs under the URL:

<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/tree/3.0.19.3>

### Compatibility changes wrt. Psychtoolbox 3.0.19.2:

- Octave: Octave 7.3 is required on MS-Windows. Octave 8.2 is required on macOS,
  but Octave 6.3 - 8.1 may also continue to work on macOS (assumed, but untested).

- Recommended operating systems: Ubuntu 22.04.2-LTS Linux, MS-Windows 10 22H2, macOS 13.4

- The macOS 10 (aka Mac OSX) OS family, macOS 11 and macOS 12 operating systems will
  probably continue to work, but are now untested and officially unsupported and unsupportable.
  Running Psychtoolbox on Apple Silicon Macs (M1, M2, ...) is not officially supported by
  this release. Visual stimulation timing will be totally broken on Apple Silicon Macs, as
  well as some other features. It is our understanding that currently no vision science
  toolkit exists that could provide any reliable or trustworthy operation on macOS for
  Apple Silicon. On Intel based Macs, Psychtoolbox likely continues to be the only toolkit
  with somewhat trustworthy visual stimulation timing on most Intel Mac configurations
  if configured correctly for use with a properly installed PsychtoolboxKernelDriver.

- Procedural shaders: Remove corrective offsets for hardware texture sampling, as
  it may be no longer helpful, but harmful, due to changes in gpu hardware drivers
  on all operating systems. See GitHub issue #800, reported by user @qx1147. Tests on
  AMD, NVidia and Intel gpu's under Linux, Windows and macOS suggest this is the right
  thing to do now. This means that the centers of procedurally generated stimuli like
  Gabor patches or sine gratings will shift by 0.5 pixels on the screen.

### Highlights:

- Switch lightly tested and supported macOS version from macOS 12 Monterey to
  macOS 13 Ventura. Older macOS versions are untested and unsupported from now on.

### All:

- The new OpenXR driver has now also been tested with the HTC Vive Pro Eye and the
  associated "Vive Wand" hand controllers with Valve SteamVR 1.25.7 on Windows and Linux,
  and with Monado on Linux with "vive" and "survive" backends as OpenXR runtimes on
  (recommended going forward) Ubuntu Linux 22.04.2-LTS. Past successfull Linux tests
  were on - no longer tested - Ubuntu 20.04.6-LTS. The driver now also works with
  Octave 7.3 on MS-Windows.

- DaqAInScanContinue: Try to fix live data retrieval on USB-1208FS when using more than one
  analog input channel. It could cause data loss or data to channel mapping misalignment
  when ``DaqAInScanContinue(daq, options, 1);`` was used with more than one input channel.
  Cfe. <https://psychtoolbox.discourse.group/t/sampling-frequency-of-analogue-input/4780/10>
  This is untested due to lack of hardware. Unpaid work time spent trying to diagnose and
  fix this: 4 hours.

- Snd: Update help text, remove Octave specific quirks - no longer needed. Add a new function
  ``Snd('OldStyle');`` to allow selection of old style audio output path on the fly, as
  addition to the former static only selection by creating a config file. Allows use of the
  old output path which simply uses Matlabs or Octaves `sound()` function, which is now
  available also on all supported Octave 5+ versions.

- Make CalDemo work with graphics hardware gamma lut sizes other than 256 slots. Instead
  use the size of the actual luts stored in the loaded calibration file.

- Try to fix and improve CalibrateMonSpd and related functions: It now also works on
  standard display setups other than visual stimulators from CRS and VPixx. Plus tons
  of bug fixes. Also it now also supports other colorimeters than the PR650. See the
  following link for the mess this tries to fix:

  <https://psychtoolbox.discourse.group/t/single-row-entries-in-theclut-during-calibration-with-a-spectroradiometer-calmonspd/5033>

- Improve ``Eyelink('ImageTransfer')``: Allow to pass in image matrices from Matlab/Octave,
  e.g., as read from image files via ``imread()``, or retrieved from PTB drawing commands
  via ``Screen('GetImage')``, or computed in scripts. Before this, it was only possible
  to load uncompressed BMP image files. Also fix the - previously broken - demos
  EyelinkPictureCustomCalibration and EyeLinkPicture. Untested on actual Eyelink, only
  tested in simulation due to lack of hardware.

- Procedural shaders: Remove corrective offsets for hardware texture sampling, as
  it may be no longer helpful, but harmful, due to changes in gpu hardware drivers
  on all operating systems. See GitHub issue #800, reported by user @qx1147.

- Minor bug fixes, documentation updates and improvements.


### Linux:

- Psychtoolbox was built and lightly tested against Matlab R2022b.

- PsychOpenHMDVR: Fix crash in 'GetTrackingState' if VR controllers are not present or
  are not supported. Also add HTC Vive Pro Eye specific undistortion shaders. Other minor
  improvements.

- Eyelink: The mex files for Linux were upgraded to now use and require the SR-Research
  eyelink_core SDK and runtime version 2.0, instead of the old v1.9 runtimes. To run the
  new mex files you either need to manually set a symlink for mapping the new runtime name
  to the old runtime library name. Or install the recent v2 runtime from SR-Research. It is
  recommended to upgrade, as the new runtime contains nice bug fixes. E.g., the runtime no
  longer hangs if no Eyelink tracker hardware is connected, iow. Eyelink dummy mode fallback
  can now work. The most easy way to upgrade Ubuntu or Debian to the latest SDK is from a
  terminal via the following command-line:
  ``sudo apt-key adv --fetch-keys https://apt.sr-research.com/SRResearch_key ; sudo add-apt-repository 'deb [arch=amd64] https://apt.sr-research.com S
RResearch main' ; sudo apt install eyelinkcore``
  or you follow the setup instructions at <https://www.sr-research.com/support/docs.php?topic=linuxsoftware>

### Windows:

- Psychtoolbox was built and lightly tested against Matlab R2022b.

- The OpenXR driver now also works with Octave 7.3, in addition to Matlab.

### macOS:

- macOS Ventura (currently version 13.4.1) is the only officially lightly tested and
  supported macOS operating system, and only for 64-Bit Intel Macs. Support and testing
  for macOS 12 Monterey has ended, but macOS 12 is assumed to continue to work as before.

- Upgrade to the brand new 64-Bit GNU/Octave 8.2 from HomeBrew is recommended for running
  Psychtoolbox 3.0.19.3 on Octave. Other Octave versions from the Octave 6.3/6.4 and 7.x
  series, Octave 8.1, or future Octave 8.x versions, may work as well, but no guarantees
  for anything other than Octave 8.2 from HomeBrew.

- Psychtoolbox was built and lightly tested against Matlab R2022b.


Enjoy!
