---
layout: post
title: Psychtoolbox continued early sale and survey!
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

Dear Psychtoolbox users,

Our christmas discount on the membership has turned into a new-year / winter
discount. Weâ€™ll keep that up for the remainder of February to give labs a last
chance to do the right thing for cheap, now that they should have their funding
for 2023 available and decision makers may have recovered from potential
christmas food coma. So far a disappointing number of only 36 labs have
contributed, in line with disappointing sales from late 2020, 2021 and 2022,
suggesting the whole membership program is another failure and this is not the
way to financially sustain PTB. But hope dies last...

We are offering you a heavily discounted Psychtoolbox paid support membership
licenses, for a substantially reduced price of only 99 Euros (plus tax), instead
of the regular 150 Euros for a 12 months membership license!

Buying such a license once a year is a good way to support Psychtoolbox continued
existence and health, and also the potential needs of your lab for expert support.

[Buy a discounted license under this link: https://www.psychtoolbox.net/#service](https://www.psychtoolbox.net/#service)

For an overview of what larger improvements have been made to Psychtoolbox over
the last two years, its continued popularity and importance to the field, and
also about our urgent need for financial support by our users, [please watch
Celia Fosters talk from VSS 2022 under this link.](https://youtu.be/afKbkOx62dQ)

And of course lots of new stuff is to be had, as just announced yesterday in the
Psychtoolbox 3.0.19 release announcement below this post!

As you can see from that presentation, in recent years the Psychtoolbox Team has
worked hard to improve Psychtoolbox itself and its services on Psychtoolbox.net.
We also kindly ask you to fill out our current user survey if your lab has not
done so already, so that we can better understand the needs and wishes of our
community. So far participation has been too low.

[Click on this link to the survey form if you want to participate.][SurveyForm]

The survey is conducted by our host for all commercial services and matters, the
["Medical Innovations Incubator GmbH, Tuebingen, Germany"](https://mi-incubator.com).

As a thank you, you will receive a discount code for your next
[Psychtoolbox Support Membership purchase](https://www.psychtoolbox.net/#service).

Many Thanks for your support and stay healthy!

Mario, Dee, Celia, Ingo and Anna

[SurveyForm]: <https://t.co/NOiTOWW0v4>

