---
layout: post
title: Psychtoolbox beta updated
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

Psychtoolbox 3.0.19 Beta update "Virtuality" was released at 17th February 2023.
As usual, the complete development history can be found in our GitHub repository.
The release tag is “3.0.19.0”, with the full tree and commit logs under the URL:

<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/tree/3.0.19.0>

### Compatibility:

- Effective now, Psychtoolbox 3.0.18 is end of life and unsupported.

- GStreamer 1.20.5 or later required on MS-Windows, GStreamer 1.22.0 recommended on
  Windows and macOS.

- Octave 6 support cancelled, except for Linux. Octave 7.3 required on macOS and
  Windows.

- New baseline Matlab is R2022b.

- Recommended operating systems: Ubuntu 22.04-LTS Linux, MS-Windows 10, macOS 12.6.

- Ubuntu 20.04-LTS is considered in maintenance mode now. I will likely terminate its
  support in the foreseeable future. Lack of funding by our users makes it impossible
  to provide the levels of long term support as in the past, even for the best suited
  operating system for neuroscience :(.
  
- RaspberryPi OS 10 support is terminated. OS 11 32-Bit required.

- Support for all Windows versions older than recent Windows-10 will soon be completely
  removed. Stick to older Psychtoolbox versions if you want to continue older versions
  for some insane reason. All Windows versions older than Windows 10 are now dead, even
  for Microsoft customers which paid for expensive extended security support.
  It is dead, Jim!

- The macOS 10 (aka Mac OSX) and macOS 11 operating systems should continue to work
  but are officially unsupported and unsupportable. macOS 13 or Apple Silicon is not
  officially supported by this release.

### Highlights:

- OpenXR cross-platform, cross-vendor, cross-device support for VR/AR/MR/XR applications.
  A new modern foundation for these kind of things, highly extensible, future proof, and
  supports a much wider range of devices.

- Improved display mirroring support, including scaling and experimenter overlays for
  having setups with a stimulus monitor for the subject and a "experimenter console" /
  "experimenter control monitor" for the experimenter. PTB is still the only software
  that allows such setups without expensive special hardware and/or screwing up visual
  stimulation timing and timestamping. There are still corner cases where this is difficult,
  but we are better than ever now, increasing our lead over other toolkits further.

- Improved low-level USB support, especially useful for the PsyCalibrator toolbox for
  display calibration under Octave and Matlab.

- ASIO support for Matlab users on Windows sort-of back through the backdoor, without
  us actually having to add it back or dealing with the legal and licensing nightmares.

- Shitloads of new workarounds for shittons of new bugs brought to you by the iPhone
  company in their latest iToys operating systems.

### All:

- The main new feature, after over 700 hours of development, spread over 12 months,
  is our new OpenXR driver for virtual reality, augmented reality and mixed reality
  applications, known as eXtended Reality. The new PsychOpenXR driver should work on
  all VR/AR/MR/XR devices from all vendors on all operating systems which have an
  OpenXR 1 specification compliant runtime installed on your machine. So far the theory.
  In practice, this means GNU/Linux X11 and MS-Windows 10 and later, and so far it has
  only be tested with an Oculus Rift CV-1 VR HMD and Oculus touch controllers, remote
  and XBox 360 controller. Code for using other form-factors than VR HMD's is not yet
  implemented, but this driver should provide the foundation for relatively extension
  into this new realms if wanted. The whole topic deserves its own dedicated and detailed
  posts, so stay tuned. Some more overview info and setup instructions are to be found via
  'help OpenXR', the new drivers specific api in 'help PsychOpenXR', the general api
  improvements and help - sufficient for most use cases - in 'help PsychVRHMD', as before.
  Development of this driver was sponsored by a consumer VR company which wants to stay
  anonymous and not specifically credited here, so thank you for contributing most of the
  funding. As funding was insufficient to complete this very complex project, Mathworks
  (https://www.mathworks.com/solutions/neuroscience.html) sponsored another quarter of the
  remaining costs, thanks! Of course that means some other highly interesting project had
  to be delayed indefinitely, as the amount of funding we get from Mathworks is fixed, just
  the distribution of the fixed some to work items is flexible. In total, funding was totally
  insufficient for making any urgently needed profit or even breaking even nonetheless, so we
  end this one year project with a serious net loss of over 3000 Euros at this point, without
  the project being finished to my quality and performance standards, barely reaching what I
  would consider the minimum viable product from my perspective, but almost certainly still
  much better than anything competing out there for vision science applications. I expect
  more financial losses related to this area of functionality unless new contract work or
  funding come in, related to OpenXR aka VR/AR/MR/XR applications.

  The new driver should be reasonably backwareds compatible, essentially a drop-in replacement,
  so code written to our recommendations should work unchanged, just on a much wider variety
  of VR hardware than before.

  Effective immediately this means that all our old drivers are now considered to be in
  minimal maintenance mode - critical bug fixes only, no further enhancements. They are
  scheduled for removal as soon as the OpenXR driver has proven its maturity to some degree.

- Tons of minor bug fixes and improvements.

- PsychPortAudio: Improve diagnostics and help texts for channel mapping, and a new demo for
  multi-channel audio output, named BasicSoundChannelHoppingDemo.m which motivated those
  improvements, demonstrating dynamic switching between channels of a multi-channel sound card,
  e.g., hopping between the channels of a 24 channel sound card.

- SetStereoSideBySideParameters(): Add option to specify offsets in pixels, and add basic
  RemapMouse() support to deal better with changed stereo display geometry. Various other
  compatibility fixes to SetStereoSideBySideParameters() and RemapMouse() in combination with
  stereo display modes in combination with imaging pipeline geometric transformations like
  FlipHorizontal or FlipVertical. Also for 90 degree step rotation with the PanelFitter.

- Screen: Fix PsychImaging task 'MirrorDisplayTo2ndOutputHead' for most use cases.
  Turns out that this display mirroring task for macOS and MS-Windows only worked for
  trivial configurations without use of the panelfitter, MSAA, image processing or other
  complexities. It also works now when combined with the Vulkan special purpose display
  backend as primary stimulus display and the regular OpenGL method for the "experimenter
  feedback" / "control console" mirror display.

- Add overlay support to the display mirroring tasks 'MirrorDisplayTo2ndOutputHead' and
  'MirrorDisplayToSingleSplitWindow'. The new optional useOverlay parameter for these
  PsychImaging tasks generates a (normally transparent) overlay window, a "head up display"
  on top of the mirror window that shows a mirror image of the stimulus presented to the
  subject on the main stimulation display. overlaywin = PsychImaging('GetMirrorOverlayWindow', win);
  allows to get a window handle overlaywin to this overlay and then use Screen drawing commands
  to draw info only meant to be seen by the experimenter, not the subject, into the overlay.
  A common use case seems to be gaze position or gaze traces of a subject in eyetracking tasks,
  or other live feedback about task progression and subject performance. This is generally
  more flexible than hardware solutions, e.g., as provided by VPixx stimulators or similar
  equipment or some display splitters.

- PsychImaging: Allow size spec of mirror image for mirroring task 'MirrorDisplayToSingleSplitWindow'.
  Dealing with setups where the mirror/console/experimenter monitor has a lower/different resolution
  than the stimulus monitor needs same special rescaling of the mirror image. Implement rescaling +
  some minor optimizations. A future extension may allow to automate handling of such less standard
  display setups, but for now the user has to specify mirror monitor display resolution manually via
  a new optional parameter.

- PsychHID: Add support for synchronous USB bulk and interrupt transfers, and manual of automatic
  claiming of USB interfaces. The new subfunctions 'USBBulkTransfer' and 'USBInterruptTransfer'
  implement synchronous bulk and interrupt transfers. This now allows writing M-File drivers
  for more research equipment. The main motivation was to enable the free and open-source
  PsyCalibrator toolbox for Octave and Matlab to implement support for many more Photometers
  and other light measurement devices in a more efficient manner, starting with the cheap
  SpyderX device. Cfe. https://github.com/yangzhangpsy/PsyCalibrator

- PsychHID: Add PsychHID('USBClaimInterface', usbHandle, interfaceId) for manual claiming of
  device interfaces. This function allows to explicitely claim a USB interface to enable it
  for I/O from/to an USB interface endpoint. Bulk- or interrupt transfers don't work if the
  interface who owns the endpoint has not been claimed. If a call to this function is omitted
  before doing bulk or interrupt transfers, then PsychHID will automatically claim interface 0.
  Claimed interfaces are auto-released when closing an USB device. Kernel drivers potentially
  attached to - and blocking - an interface will be automatically detached, and then reattached
  at device close. In other words: Use of the most commonly used interface 0 does not need any
  extra user code. Use of other interfaces will require this call in time.

  On macOS: Note that if a macOS kernel driver (kext) has already claimed exclusive access to the
  device, then this will only work by detaching the kernel driver, which requires you to run Octave
  or Matlab as root. Only tested by myself with octave via "sudo octave" so far. For the hoops you
  have to jump through on macOS to get this working without sudo, read this FAQ:

  https://github.com/libusb/libusb/wiki/FAQ#how-can-i-run-libusb-applications-under-mac-os-x-if-there-is-already-a-kernel-extension-installed-for-the-device-and-claim-exclusive-access

  Executive summary: Give up, or be prepared to suffer greatly!

- Various help text and documentation updates.

- Terminate support for Python 2.x, it is officially end-of-life since beginning 2020. Only
  Python 3.6 and later are supported by our Python "Mex files" going forward. This makes the
  files also forward compatible with more Python versions by opt-in use of the Py limited api.
  Contributed mostly by Alex Forrence, with some tweaks by Mario Kleiner. Various other minor
  enhancements to PsychPython.
  
### Linux:

- Add support for 64-Bit Octave 7.x, implemented via the shared mex files for Octave 4.4 - Octave 7.3.
  This enables use with Octave on Ubuntu 22.10.

- Screen: Add gpu detection support for NVidia 170 "Ampere" gpu family and "Ada Lovelace" gpu
  family. Avoids some confusing warning and may improve Flip performance by a few dozen microseconds
  in some cases. Use of NVidia graphics cards is still discouraged due to the need of proprietary
  graphics drivers for all modern models, which limit useful functionality compared to gpus with
  open-source drivers, and make general use more tedious and troublesome.

- Drawtext plugin: Add workaround for Mesa bug with small non-anti-aliased text of 8 pixels and
  less. Rarely needed, but somebody in the VR research community needed it, so there.

- Compatibility fixes for the RaspberryPi on RaspberryPi OS 11 aka Debian 11 stable. Especially
  for old RPi 1,2,3 with VideoCore-4 gpu, XOrgConfCreator now generates a special xorg.conf
  file to enable fixes for these gpu's which were not neccessary on older RaspberryPi OS versions.
  Other misc compatibility improvements.
  
  Our build system for ARM / RaspberryPi is no 32-Bit RaspberryPi OS 11, with 32-Bit Octave 6.2,
  32-Bit ARM RaspberryPi 400. 64-Bit operating systems are not supported, and support for the
  legacy RaspberryPi OS 10 is now terminated.

- gamemode.ini: Comment out the amd_performance_level=high gpu perf option.
  Setting amd_performance_level=high for high performance level was found
  to cause stability issues at least on AMD Ryzen-5 2400G "RavenRidge" under
  Ubuntu 20.04.5-LTS with Linux 5.15 under prolonged load, likely a cooling problem.
  It may be safe to enable it for other AMD gpu's, especially well-cooled
  or discrete ones, but better safe than sorry by default, as i don't like
  my main devel machine crashing regularly and other users may also have machines
  with shaky cooling.


### Windows:

- 64-Bit Intel MSVC GStreamer version 1.20.5 is now required as minimum supported version
  for both Octave and Matlab. High quality text rendering will fail with any earlier version!
  From now on we always use the fontconfig-1.dll bundled with GStreamer 1.20.5 and later for
  font matching, which should simplify debugging of future issues on MS-Windows. This version
  also enables the ability to use User installed 3rd party fonts without extra configuration
  work by the user, obsoleting various hacks. GStreamer 1.22.0 was also lightly tested without
  obvious problems, so upgrading to 1.22.0 is recommended for new features, wider support for
  audio/video formats, improved performance and various bug fixes in the multi-media area.

- 64-Bit GNU/Octave 7.3 required for running Psychtoolbox 3.0.19 on Octave.

- Psychtoolbox was built and lightly tested against Matlab R2022b.

- PsychPortAudio: Allow use of a wider range of 3rd party portaudio_x64.dll plugins for the
  underlying PortAudio engine implementation. The most interesting use case of this is for
  users of Matlab, as recent versions of Matlab ship with a Mathworks provided Portaudio
  implementation that has builtin ASIO support, where all the legal licensing and trademark
  issues are taken care of by Mathworks. If one copies the DLL shipping with Matlab into the
  PsychtoolboxRoot() folder, renamed to the filename portaudio_x64.dll instead of the filename
  that Matlab uses (libportaudio.dll), then this will expose basic ASIO support, even when used
  with GNU/Octave. Please note that Mathworks is legally responsible for this ASIO support, whereas
  we do not include any support for ASIO into Psychtoolbox, we merely expose whatever a 3rd party
  portaudio DLL supports, which happens to be also ASIO in case of the Matlab provided dll, so we
  are legally in the clear, while some of our users may be more happy with their sound setup even
  if they refuse to switch to Linux. Obviously these 3rd party driver plugins are completely
  unsupported by us in case of trouble, and likely also by Mathworks, as this is not their intended
  use case, just a side-effect of some functionality that is probably meant for the audio toolbox.

- Update bundled libusb-1 for MS-Windows to most recent version 1.0.26 with many bug fixes and
  improvements over the last 11 years.

### macOS:

- 64-Bit GNU/Octave 7.3 required for running Psychtoolbox 3.0.19 on Octave. Other Octave versions
  from the Octave 6.3+ and 7.x series may work as well, but no guarantees.

- Psychtoolbox was built and lightly tested against Matlab R2022b.

- Switch only supported and lightly tested macOS version from 10.15 Catalina to 12 Monterey.
  No more development or testing on 10.15.7 Catalina, now that it has been wiped from my drive.
  We keep macosx-version-min at 10.11 for the time being, so PTB may still work back to 10.11,
  but no guarantees, and I don't care if it breaks on older systems than macOS 12.6 Monterey.
  macOS 13 Ventura is completely untested and not officially supported yet. Apple Silicon Macs
  continue to be unsupported and untested, with known completely broken visual stimulation timing
  and possible other issues. All mex files are for 64-Bit Intel processor architecture variants of
  Matlab and GNU/Octave only.

- PsychOculusVR: Remove for macOS. No VR virtual reality support on macOS anymore as of PTB 3.0.19.
  It only supported the long time out-of-sale since many years Oculus Rift DK1 and Rift DK2, with an
  Oculus v0.5 runtime for macOS that is not available for download from Oculus or anywhere else
  anymore since years, and only for macOS versions which supported 32-Bit Intel architecture executables,
  iow. doesn't work on macOS 10.15 Catalina and later anymore thanks to Apple breaking backwards
  compatibility with 32-Bit applications.

- Fix performance of PsychHID further for the latest Apple security bullshit, introduced sometime
  after macOS 10.15 Catalina. This was found when testing Octave on macOS 12.5 Monterey, a massive
  performance degradation for KbCheck and related functions if Matlab or Octave are launched from
  a terminal (iow. always for Octave!). Apple screwed up their api's further to increase processing
  time of some time sensitive operation from 1 msec to over 15 msec! Now we are back to about 2.4
  msecs on macOS 12, which is much worse than MS-Windows with less than 1 msecs or Linux with less
  than 0.1 msecs. So now it is merely Apple bad, as most Apple stuff.
  
- Screen: Unbreak our Vulkan display backend via MoltenVK Vulkan-on-Metal again for macOS 12, after
  Apple broke it somewhere after macOS 11. After close to 80 hours of diagnostic work, distributed
  over more than 4.5 months on and off, going down every conceivable route of diagnostics and low-level
  debugging, i could not find anything wrong with my code or MoltenVK. Turns out, it is yet another
  "dumb beyond imagination" bug in the iPhone companies latest macOS 12, nothing we did wrong. The
  root cause is unclear, but now we include a dumb hack which makes it work again, against any rhyme
  or reason. Of course, I don't know if Apple has broken it or will break it again in macOS 13 Ventura
  or later abominations. So basic HDR on macOS is back in the game...
  
- PsychHID: Switch low-level USB support to use of shared libusb-1 backend instead of Apples macOS
  proprietary backend, which became a maintenance nightmare. This now allows all operating systems
  to progress in the same way with shared high-quality code. It does mean however, that if one wants
  to use low-level USB device access, e.g., USB control-/bulk-/interrupt-transfers, one needs to
  install libusb-1.dylib with a minimum version of 1.0.22 from a suitable source, or these functions
  will refuse to work. The most simple way to get this library is via HomeBrew: brew install libusb
  
  The only affected Psychtoolbox function without libusb dylib is the ColorCal2() functions for using
  CRS ColorCal-II devices.

Enjoy!

