---
layout: post
title: Psychtoolbox beta updated
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

Psychtoolbox 3.0.19 Beta update "Tag games" was released at 16th March 2024.
As usual, the complete development history can be found in our GitHub repository.
The release tag is “3.0.19.9”, with the full tree and commit logs under the URL:

<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/tree/3.0.19.9>


### Compatibility changes wrt. Psychtoolbox 3.0.19.8:

- None

### Highlights:

- Apriltags fiducial marker tracking support on Linux. This is only
  supported on Linux, not on other operating systems.

### All:

- New helper function ``PsychCamIntrinsicsToGLProjectionMatrix()``.
  Given camera intrinsic parameters from some camera calibration software,
  and the desired zNear and zFar clipping planes of the view frustum,
  compute and return a projection matrix for use as GL_PROJECTION_MATRIX
  for OpenGL rendering with a virtual pinhole camera that approximates the
  properties of the real camera.

### Linux:

- Psychtoolbox was built and lightly tested against Matlab R2023b.

- (Re-)add `PsychCV()` mex file for Octave and Matlab, with support for
  vision based tracking of AprilTag fiducial markers (aka tags) by use
  of the apriltag library. This PsychCV mex file will only work on
  Ubuntu 22.04-LTS and later, not on Ubuntu 20.04-LTS anymore.


### Windows:

- Psychtoolbox was built and lightly tested against Matlab R2023b.


### macOS:

- Psychtoolbox was built and lightly tested against Matlab R2023b and
  Octave 8.4 from HomeBrew.


Enjoy!
