---
layout: post
title: Psychtoolbox updated
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

Psychtoolbox 3.0.19.16 "Last free dessert" was released at 20th November 2024.
The complete development history can be found in our GitHub repository.
The release tag is “3.0.19.16”, with the full tree and commit logs under the URL:

<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/tree/3.0.19.16>

[This Psychtoolbox release was sponsored by Mathworks under the year 2024 contract
for establishing Matlab R2024b compatibility on Ubuntu 24.04 Linux and Windows 10.
](https://www.mathworks.com/solutions/neuroscience.html)


### Highlights:

- None. This is a release with small fixes and tweaks, based on compatibility
  testing of Psychtoolbox with Ubuntu Linux 24.04.1-LTS and MS Windows-10 22H2
  with Matlab R2024b under the Mathworks 2024 contract which requires at least
  one Psychtoolbox release that is compatible with R2024b under Linux and Windows.

  As such, no compatibility testing was performed wrt. macOS, apart from quick
  spot testing with R2024b, as testing on macOS was not part of the paid contract,
  and the contract pays way too little to cover any non-mandatory work.

  The total work time spent on R2024b testing and refinement was 42 hours.

  No compatibility issues were found with R2024b, compared to R2024a, iow.
  no regressions. All improvements in this release are for fixing / working
  around Microsoft Windows bugs or flaws, or AMD and NVidia graphics driver
  bugs on Windows. And some small tweaks and enhancements.

### All:

- RenderDemo: Add missing BackupCluts to not annoy the user. Restore the lut's
  at the end of the demo, so display doesn't look "milky" and dull.

- FlipTimingWithRTBoxPhotoDiodeTest: Let audio card select its preferred sample rate.
  Some Some recent sound chips don't like our hard-coded 44100 Hz, so let them
  choose their preferred rate.

- PlayMoviesDemo: Cleanup web movies offering a bit.

- PsychImaging: Some doc update wrt. Intel 10 bpc support on Ubuntu 22.04+.

### Linux:

- Psychtoolbox was extensively tested against Matlab R2024b, under Ubuntu 24.04.1-LTS
  Linux with AMD Polaris and Intel Kabylake graphics, also in dual-gpu configurations
  on a dual-gpu hybrid graphics Laptop.

### Windows:

- Psychtoolbox was extensively tested against Matlab R2024b, and lightly tested
  against Octave 7.3, both under MS-Windows 10 R22H2 with primarily AMD graphics,
  and spot checked with NVidia graphics.

- MultiWindowLockStepTest: Fix failure in default dual-window 10/20 seconds async
  flip case on MS-Windows 10, due to interaction with an OpenGL quirk.

- DrawManuallyAntiAliasedTextDemo: Add workaround for AMD OpenGL graphics driver
  bug on Windows-10. Ditto for TextToStuffColorMismatchTest.m.

Enjoy!
