---
layout: post
title: Psychtoolbox updated
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

Psychtoolbox 3.0.19 update "Scraps" was released at 5th June 2024.
As usual, the complete development history can be found in our GitHub repository.
The release tag is “3.0.19.12”, with the full tree and commit logs under the URL:

<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/tree/3.0.19.12>

Some of this Psychtoolbox release was sponsored by [Mathworks under the year
2023/2024 contract.](https://www.mathworks.com/solutions/neuroscience.html).


### Compatibility changes wrt. Psychtoolbox 3.0.19.11:

- None.

### Highlights:

- None. Just some small fixups for improved Ubuntu 24.04-LTS and Matlab R2024a
  compatibility.

### All:



### Linux:

- Psychtoolbox was built and tested against Matlab R2024a.

- PsychLinuxConfiguration: Quote paths, to improve MLTBX compatibility.

- PsychLinuxConfiguration(): Add users also to 'gamemode' group.
  This provides additional permissions to the gamemoded running on behalf
  of the user, to execute additional performance optimizations as part
  of Priority(n) with n > 0. Needed on at least Ubuntu 24.04-LTS and later.

- ``Screen('OpenMovie')``: On Linux, use pipewiresink as audio sink if
  available. Should fix the following issue on Ubuntu 24.04-LTS and later,
  and other distributions that use Pipewire as desktop sound server and
  have an outdated buggy Pulseaudio 16 installation, instead of the more
  recent Pulseaudio 17. The bug can't be fixed on Ubuntu 22.04-LTS without
  manual user workarounds. See following issue for this bug, which is
  likely not encountered often:

  <https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/issues/814>

  On unfixed affected systems (mostly Ubuntu 22.04-LTS), if there is
  a notable time delay between ``Screen('OpenMovie')`` and start of
  video+audio playback via ``Screen('PlayMovie')``, then the movie
  playback will freeze after displaying the 1st video frame for the
  duration of that delay between OpenMovie and PlayMovie, then
  continue. Problem didn't exist in earler Linux distributions like
  Ubuntu 20.04-LTS and is fixed by this bug fix for later distros like
  Ubuntu 24.04-LTS from April 2024.

### Windows:

- Psychtoolbox was built and lightly tested against Matlab R2023b.

### macOS:

- Psychtoolbox was built against Matlab R2023b and tested against
  Matlab R2024a and Octave 8.4 from HomeBrew. It also works on the
  new Octave 9.1 from HomeBrew

- SetupPsychtoolbox: Quote paths, to improve MLTBX compatibility.

- TextInOffscreenWindowTest.m: Fix it for Retina displays on macOS. Also cleanup.

- BitsPlusPlus: Handle Apple macOS Retina displays properly for imaging pipeline validation runs.

- ImagingStereoDemo: Handle Apple Retina displays properly during movie writing.

- TwoStateQuery(): Add workaround for broken Matlab R2024a on Apple macOS.

Enjoy!
