---
layout: post
title: Psychtoolbox updated
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

Psychtoolbox 3.0.20 "Appletizer" was released at 13th December 2024, at least
in some time zone. Hopefully Friday 13th will bring us luck instead of horror.

The complete development history can be found in our GitHub repository.
The release tag is “3.0.20.0”, with the full tree and commit logs under the URL:

<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/tree/3.0.20.0>

**This is the first release with beta quality macOS Apple Silicon Mac support**
for native use on Apple Macintosh computers with 64-Bit ARM Apple proprietary
M1, M2, M3, ... SoC's.

**We thank the labs of Keith Schneider at the University of Delaware and of**
**Bas Rokers at NYU Abu Dhabi for substantial sponsorship to push Apple**
**Silicon support over the finish line.**

[This Psychtoolbox release was sponsored by Mathworks under the year 2024/2025
contract for small enhancements and bug fixes.](https://www.mathworks.com/solutions/neuroscience.html)

Effective immediately, the Psychtoolbox 3.0.19 series has now reached end of life.
No improvements, bug fixes or user support will be provided for Psychtoolbox 3.0.19
or earlier versions of Psychtoolbox.


### Compatibility changes wrt. Psychtoolbox 3.0.19.16:

- Psychtoolbox 3.0.20 and later on Apple macOS and Microsoft Windows
  will require purchase of a paid software license key, once the
  initial time-limited free trial period after first installation and
  use has expired. Psychtoolbox will not work after the end of the trial
  period without such a paid license key. The Psychtoolbox variants for
  Linux on Intel processors and 32-Bit RaspberryPi will remain free to
  use for the time being.

  The free time-limited trial period will last until the launch of
  our new online shop, ie. until you will be able to buy software
  license keys. The estimated date of launch, and end of the free
  trial, will be likely around early to mid January 2025.

  Follow the news on <http://psychtoolbox.org> and on our Discourse
  user forum or our social media feeds @psychtoolbox on X / Twitter,
  <https://neuromatch.social/@psychtoolbox> on Mastodon, or on BlueSky
  <@psychtoolbox.bsky.social> for announcements of the launch of the
  software license key sale early in the year 2025, or go to
  <https://psychtoolbox.net> to find out how to buy a key, once sales
  has started.

### Highlights:

- Initial "Beta" Apple Silicon support for running Psychtoolbox on macOS
  for Apple Silicon Macs. Psychtoolbox can now be used with native Octave
  and Matlab for Apple Silicon ARM Macs, ie. machines with Apple M1,
  M2, M3, M4, ... SoC's. Most basic functionality should work reasonably
  well, and substantially better than when using older Psychtoolbox
  versions via Matlab for IntelMacs, which had various severe limitations
  which would make them painful to use and deeply hazardous for any real
  data collection! This versions Apple Silicon support was tested by myself
  on a Apple MacBookPro early 2023 with 16 inch Liquid Retina XDR display
  and Apple M2 Pro SoC under macOS 14.5 Sonoma with 64-Bit native Octave 9.2
  from HomeBrew, and with Matlab R2024a and with Matlab R2024b. It was also
  more lightly tested by others on a similar 16 inch MacBookPro late 2023 with
  M3 Pro SoC under the macOS 15.2 Sequoia beta under Matlab R2024b, and a
  MacBookAir 2020 with M1 SoC, and a Mac Studio 2023 M2 Ultra and MacBookAir
  M3 13 inch early 2024, the latter two with macOS 15.2 beta and Matlab R2024b.
  Thanks to our volunteer testers.

  While surely some bugs or limitations still exist, this should be a first good
  release for basic use and evaluation.

  Known limitations are lack of frame-sequential stereo support in stereo modes
  1 and 11, Screen Async flips, ie. subfunctions 'AsyncFlipBegin', 'AsyncFlipEnd'
  and 'AsyncFlipCheckEnd' are unsupported. Certain glitches in frame presentation
  timing are still observed under certain conditions at least on macOS 14, e.g.,
  stalls / short freezes after the stimulus image was static for a while, e.g,
  observable with MouseTraceDemo if not moving the mouse for a while. These may
  also trigger printing of some warning messages into the Matlab or Octave Window
  about "...Failed to retrieve ... stimulus onset timestamp! Timed out.". It is
  not yet clear if these issues are still present on macOS 15 Sequoia as well,
  testing to be done. These remaining timing glitches are almost certainly due to
  Apple macOS operating system bugs, which will either need proper fixing by Apple,
  or need invention of new creative workarounds on our side, if that is needed and
  possible.

  Apples "ProMotion" display mode on some builtin Retina displays, e.g., of the
  MacBookPro models, and variable refresh rate modes in general, are not supported
  and will cause more erratic behaviour. Make sure to switch to a fixed refresh rate
  mode in display settings instead on such machines.

  Movie playback, movie writing and video capture works well with GStreamer 1.24.10,
  but due to what seem to be shortcomings or bugs of current GStreamer releases,
  video recording on Apple Silicon only works for video, not when also trying to
  record audio - otherwise hangs will occur. On Intel Macs, video recording does
  not work at all with GStreamer 1.24.10, but does for both video and audio with
  GStreamer 1.22, however with the downside that playback of some movies fails.
  So both GStreamer 1.22 and 1.24 have some limitations, pick the variant with
  limitations you can better live with, until GStreamer is properly fixed in some
  future GStreamer version.

  You should probably not yet use this release for real data collection if
  highest reliability of visual stimulus presentation timing is required. Use
  for less demanding scenarios may be fine, but tread carefully with this early
  release!

### All:

- Screen: Fix PsychNormalizeTextureOrientation() for multi-window use.
  Use of multiple onscreen windows could cause the wrong OpenGL context
  of the wrong onscreen window to be in use during operation. Fix this. Cfe.
  <https://psychtoolbox.discourse.group/t/unknown-problem-playing-movies-with-gstreamer-on-ubuntu-linux/4876/8>

- Screen: Various improvements to movie playback. E.g., improve reliability of
  playback with pixelFormat 6 and 8.

- Screen: Reduce chattiness of some status/debug output in general. Generally
  refine status output a bit.

- AlphaRotateDemo.m: Small fixups for weirdly sized displays and formatting fixes.
  Especially useful for the Retina displays of 16 inch Apple Silicon MacBookPro,
  with a horizontal resolution that has an odd pixel count instead of an even count.

- PsychPython/audio.py: Fix 'AttributeError' raised when creating a stream fails.
  Contributed by GitHub user @mdcutone.

- PsychColorimetric/LMSToMacBoyn(): "Add an example and save the correct version",
  some poorly documented fixes or improvements by the Brainard lab with commit
  messages that are mostly void of meaningful information, so I don't know what they
  did.

- Various other smaller refinements, bug fixes and documentation updates.

### Linux:

- Psychtoolbox was built and tested against Matlab R2024b and Octave 5.2 and later.

- PsychVulkan: Only use workaround against an AMDVLK bug, which causes a crash if a
  used display monitor has more than 64 video modes, on AMDVLK driver versions
  before v-2024.Q4.2, as the bug has been fixed by AMD in the upstream driver version
  v-2024.Q4.2, released by AMD early December 2024.

### Windows:

- Psychtoolbox was built and tested against Matlab R2024b and Octave 7.3.

- Screen: Drop GStreamer DirectShow video capture. Prioritize Mediafoundation.
  DirectShow video capture is unmaintained and strongly discouraged by GStreamer
  folks since the year 2022, and indeed testing shows it is quite broken now.
  WDM-KS kernel streaming is also deprecated since the year 2022. MediaFoundation
  capture is the only recommended way forward. Limited testing on Windows 10 22H2
  also shows it to be the most capable and stable right now (tested GStreamer 1.22).

  Drop support for DirectShow dshowvideosrc completely, and prefer Mediafoundation
  mfvideosrc over the deprecated Kernel Streaming ksvideosrc.

- PsychVulkan/Windows: Disable fullscreen exclusive mode on shoddy AMD Vulkan drivers
  again. This still does not work reliably and often leads to black screens instead
  of stimulus display. The error pattern was unpredictable, with fullscreen exclusive
  mode sometimes working throughout long sessions, then suddenly failing, with no way
  to fix it (even a reboot doesn't help), then on another day suddenly working again
  for a streak of runs. Upside is a working display, but downside is impaired visual
  stimulus presentation timing reliability.

### macOS:

- Psychtoolbox was built and tested against native Matlab R2024b and against native
  Octave 9.2 from HomeBrew, on macOS 13.7.1 Ventura for Intel Macs, and on macOS 14.5
  Sonoma for Apple Silicon Macs.

- Initial support for running Psychtoolbox on macOS for Apple Silicon Macs with ARM
  native Matlab and Octave. See Highlights section above for more details.

- Bump the minimum required macOS version to macOS 10.13 "High Sierra". Effective this
  means that macOS 10.13 for IntelMacs, and macOS 11 "Big Sur" for Apple Silicon Macs
  are required to run Psychtoolbox 3.0.20.

  Of course this new minimum is a bit redundant, because all macOS versions older
  than macOS 13 are completely unsupported by Apple since October 2024, so running
  anything older is at least a high computer security risk, and has lots of unfixed
  remaining bugs and is therefore not a good idea. Additionally macOS 13 is needed
  at a minimum on Apple Silicon Macs to allow proper operation of visual stimulators
  from VPixx and Cambridge Research Systems.

- Fix video recording on macOS. Works fully with video + audio on macOS for Intel
  Macs with GStreamer 1.22. Works with video only, no audio, on macOS for Apple
  Silicon Macs.

- Implement initial pixelFormat 11 movie playback support on macOS for playback of
  Deep color, Wide color gamut (WCG), and High Dynamic Range (HDR) movies. This
  provides 10 bpc deep color, WCG and HDR, but at a lower performance than on other
  operating systems, as Apples prehistoric OpenGL 2.1 implementation forces us to
  use a less efficient decoding shader, and hardware accelerated video decoding can
  not be used as of GStreamer 1.24.10, as it would reduce color precision to only 8
  bpc which is utterly insufficient for WCG and HDR playback, causing significant
  banding and HDR artefacts.

- Make pixelFormat 6 playback work without crashing.

- Screen: Make Intel iGPU pageflip checking on recent macOS for Intel graphics chips
  more robust. This may improve robustness of correctness checks on Intel integrated
  graphics on Intel Macs with PsychtoolboxKernelDriver installed. Problem seen and
  fixed on Intel Kabylake Gen 9.5 graphics of MacBookPro 2017.

- Fix some crashes on Octave for macOS when using Psychtoolbox after issuing a
  "clear all", or "clear mex", or "clear Screen", or "clear PsychVulkanCore" command.

Enjoy!
