---
layout: post
title: Psychtoolbox updated
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

Psychtoolbox 3.0.19 update "Eyegazer" was released at 18th May 2024.
As usual, the complete development history can be found in our GitHub repository.
The release tag is “3.0.19.11”, with the full tree and commit logs under the URL:

<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/tree/3.0.19.11>

Some of this Psychtoolbox release was sponsored by [Mathworks under the year
2023/2024 contract.](https://www.mathworks.com/solutions/neuroscience.html).

[Our partner SR-Research, makers of the Eyelink gaze trackers, sponsored
the major 2024 Eyelink toolbox update.](https://www.sr-research.com/)

### Compatibility changes wrt. Psychtoolbox 3.0.19.10:

- None expected. But possibility due to massive Eyelink toolbox changes.

### Highlights:

- Big Eyelink toolbox update by SR-Research with the most massive
  improvements in over a decade.

### All:

- Release of the new Eyelink toolbox. This is the biggest update of the
  Eyelink toolbox for Eyelink gaze trackers from SR-Research since over
  a decade! Most of the work was done by the team at SR-Research. Credits
  to Brian Richardson, Marcus Johnson, and Kurt Debono. Additional 88
  hours of my work time were sponsored by SR-Research, to provide code
  review, feedback and advice on improving the integration while
  maintaining backwards compatibility, and code improvements. Among
  many other improvements, the new Eyelink toolbox can integrate better
  with PsychPortAudio for playing feedback sounds during tracker calibration,
  and it can use dynamic animated calibration targets by playing back
  movies. Upload of backdrop images to the tracker host computer is possible.
  Stereoscopic/Binocular display modes of Psychtoolbox are now supported
  for use with the gazetracker. Many new functions have been added to improve
  ease and efficiency of use. A new set of demos demonstrates efficient use
  and best practices with the new toolbox. Legacy functions should be still
  supported for backwards compatibility, but many legacy demos have been
  removed. The toolbox has been carefully tested by SR-Research on all
  supported operating systems, so we hope this major update will go without
  major problems. Thanks to our partner SR-Research for this contribution
  and the team at SR-Research for good collaboration!

- CedrusResponseBox(): Disable any flow control.
  It was supposed to use hardware flow control (FlowControl=Hardware),
  but that did not work until PTB v3.0.19.6 due to an IOPort parameter
  handling bug. Since the bug is fixed, hardware flow control would be
  used. This was supposed to make Cedrus to work more robust, but it
  apparently had the opposite effect, as the following PTB forum message
  suggests:

  <https://psychtoolbox.discourse.group/t/waiting-forever-for-data-transmission-with-cedrus-rb/5319>

  Disable flow control explicitely, to revert to pre 3.0.19.6 behaviour,
  where Cedrus boxes worked as well as they could.

  If this fixes the bug though, that means my original opinion about
  the quality of Cedrus hardware - or the lack thereof - would be
  true, and the fragile communication was not caused by our IOPort
  driver bug, ie. by lack of hardware flow control. Let's see...

- ImagingStereoMoviePlayer.m: Also handle top-bottom stereo encoded movies.

### Linux:

- Psychtoolbox was built and lightly tested against Matlab R2023b.

- Fix most basic compatibility with Ubuntu 24.04.0-LTS. Extensive compatibility
  testing with Ubuntu 24.04-LTS is still outstanding.

- Fix Matlab R2020 - R2024a plotting on Intel graphics. After this Matlab bug
  being reported to Mathworks and going unfixed for multiple years, I decided
  to cave and add a workaround to PsychLinuxConfiguration(). It will add some
  config option during post-install to Matlab's Java JOGL OpenGL interface, to
  avoid use of OpenGL ARB contexts. This works around the Matlab bug and makes
  Matlab's graphics and plotting functions work on Intel graphics chips.

- Refine PsychCV's Apriltags implementation. Make sure that if the same marker
  is apparently detected multiple times in an image, that then the detection
  with the lowest hamming error and highest score is returned, so good detections
  can't override false positive noise. Allow limiting the number of markers used
  from a tagFamily, so one can select tag families whose total marker count would
  cause a very high memory consumption, leading to out-of-memory errors on machines
  with even 8 GB of RAM, or very long startup times, by only using a subset of
  markers. Allow to select more tuning parameters for marker detection. Suppress
  useless debug output.

- Screen('OpenVideoCapture'): Allow to disable videorate converter during recording.

### Windows:

- Psychtoolbox was built and lightly tested against Matlab R2023b.

- PsychPortAudio: Use auto samplerate conversion under WASAPI shared mode
  with reqlatencylcass 0 or 1 (the default). This should allow to request
  arbitrary audio sample rates, as the operating system should perform
  proper sample rate conversion. Should automatically fix issues like the
  following:

  <https://psychtoolbox.discourse.group/t/ptb-thinks-usb-sound-card-doesnt-support-44100hz/5324>

  For now this is only implemented for Octave, not yet Matlab, until it can be
  tested a bit more.

### macOS:

- Psychtoolbox was built and lightly tested against Matlab R2023b and
  Octave 8.4 from HomeBrew. It also works on the new Octave 9.1 from
  HomeBrew

Enjoy!
