---
layout: post
title: Psychtoolbox updated
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

Psychtoolbox 3.0.22.0 "Oh wie schoen ist Panama!" was released at 28th May 2025.

You can download it as a zip file from the following link:

<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/releases/download/3.0.22.0/3.0.22.0.zip>

**This release is strongly recommended to upgrade to if you are a user of
Psychtoolbox 3.0.20 on macOS or Windows, as it allows most reliable and
smooth use under the new paid software license subscription model.**

The complete development history can be found in our GitHub repository.
The release tag is “3.0.22.0”, with the full tree and commit logs under the URL:

<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/tree/3.0.22.0>

[This Psychtoolbox release was sponsored by Mathworks under the year 2024/2025
contract for significant enhancements, sponsoring the OpenXR hand tracking
support as major new feature.](https://www.mathworks.com/solutions/neuroscience.html)

### Compatibility changes wrt. Psychtoolbox 3.0.21.0:

- This release no longer supports the Ubuntu 20.04-LTS "Focal Fossa" family of
  Linux operating system distributions, and siblings like Debian GNU/Linux 11
  "Bullseye". In fact, it requires Ubuntu 22.04.5-LTS "Jammy Jellyfish" with all
  updates installed, or Debian GNU/Linux 12 "Bookworm" and equivalent distributions,
  ie. Linux distributions where all software components are at least as modern
  and recent as those in Ubuntu 22.04.5-LTS. Psychtoolbox Mex files will no
  longer work on older distributions, or if some would appear to work, they might
  show various subtle and not so subtle malfunctions - iow. they woud be unfit
  for research grade data collection.

- Psychtoolbox for Matlab on Linux now also requires a paid software subscription
  license, while the Octave variant for Linux remains free of cost to use.

### Highlights:

- New fast, mostly seamless fixed refresh rate switching on Linux with AMD graphics.

- Hand tracking performance optimizations.

### All:

- Software subscription licenses can now also be activated during setup with
  user email+password of the account of the license manager self service portal.
  Psychtoolbox will fetch the correponding license key automatically.

- License management now contains functionality needed for implementation of
  campus licenses, unattended auto setup of licenses, and educational licenses.

- Performance optimizations for the articulated hand and finger tracking for
  OpenXR, which was introduced in Psychtoolbox 3.0.20.4. Now operates 20-30 times
  faster, doing its job in less than 0.5 msecs on average hardware.

- PR655parsespdstr(): Fix to handle zero values in measurements correctly.
  Contributed by Danny Garside @da5nsy thanks!

- Various other smaller refinements, bug fixes and documentation updates.

### Linux:

- Psychtoolbox was built and tested against Matlab R2024b and Octave 6.4 under
  Ubuntu 22.04.5-LTS. Now only works on Ubuntu 22.04-LTS and later.

- Added workarounds for bugs in AMD's Vulkan driver AMDVLK that have been introduced
  due to mistakes by AMD's developers since version v-2023.Q2.2 and later, starting
  in May 2023. These bugs prevent 16 bpc ultra-high precision framebuffers to be
  reported as supported in both SDR and HDR mode of operation, with some driver
  versions even 10 bpc support is lacking in SDR Standard Dynamic Range mode! The
  bug prevents all AMD RDNA 3+ graphics cards with Navi 30 or later gpu family
  from using these 16 bpc framebuffers, and thereby from achieving up to 12 bpc
  effective output precision. Our new workaround tricks the faulty drivers into
  supporting these modes anyway and thereby restores the 10 bpc modes in SDR/HDR
  and tries to restore 16 bpc modes for up to 12 bpc effective output color
  precision in SDR and HDR again. While this has been confirmed to work on gpu's
  of the AMD Vega gpu family and earier models, the situation on AMD Navi / RDNA
  gpu's ist still unclear at time of this release. There might be additional bugs
  in the AMDVLK drivers still preventing this. Unfortunately the tester for this
  feature on AMD RDNA gpu's has not reported back in reasonable time and we have
  to release now, with this question still to be answered.

- Support for rapid, seamless video refresh rate switching on modern FreeSync
  capable AMD graphics cards, when used with a Variable Refresh Rate capable
  display device, connected via DisplayPort, e.g. suitable FreeSync, GSync and
  "Vesa DisplayPort Adaptive Sync"  capable monitors. This can be triggered for
  a whole X-Screen with one or multiple active outputs via the command
  ``Screen('Framerate', screenId, 2, reqHz);`` or on a individual per-output basis via
  ``Screen('ConfigureDisplay', 'FineGrainedSwitchRefreshRate', screenId, outputId, reqHz);``
  This allows to request an instant switch of the displays to a new video refresh rate
  `reqHz` within the variable refresh rate range supported by the display monitor,
  e.g., to run dynamic animations or movie playback at a specific exact rate, and
  switch that rate on a trial-by-trial basis if needed, with switching times in the
  range of only one to a few video refresh cycle duration. All AMD graphics cards
  since the Sea Island gpu family from around the year 2014 should be supported.

  The new test and demo `VRRFixedRateSwitchingTest.m` demonstrates and tests this.

- Fix touchscreen enumeration for touchscreens operated by the "Intel Precision Touch
  and Stylus Daemon" iptsd version 3 and later. `GetTouchDeviceIndices()` now
  filters out the wrong touchscreen device and enumerates the correct devices.

### Windows:

- Psychtoolbox was built and tested against Matlab R2024b and Octave 7.3.

### macOS:

- Psychtoolbox was built and tested against native Matlab R2024b and against native
  Octave 9.4 from HomeBrew, on macOS 13.7.5 Ventura for Intel Macs, and on macOS 14.5
  Sonoma for Apple Silicon Macs.

- Add a Datapixx mex file for Matlab on Apple Silicon Macs, based on VPixx latest
  release. This is supposed, but not tested by us, to make basic support for VPixx
  devices work on macOS for Apple Silicon. Note that the Datapixx mex file for Octave
  is not ready and most likely broken on Apple Silicon, as of now.

Enjoy!
