---
layout: post
title: Psychtoolbox updated
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

Happy New Year!

Psychtoolbox 3.0.20.1 "Appletizer SP1" was released at 12th January 2025.

The complete development history can be found in our GitHub repository.
The release tag is “3.0.20.1”, with the full tree and commit logs under the URL:

<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/tree/3.0.20.1>

[This Psychtoolbox release was sponsored by Mathworks under the year 2024/2025
contract for small enhancements and bug fixes.](https://www.mathworks.com/solutions/neuroscience.html)

### Compatibility changes wrt. Psychtoolbox 3.0.20.0:

- None

### Highlights:

- None. This is a minor macOS Apple Silicon maintenance release.

## macOS:

- Psychtoolbox was built and tested against native Matlab R2024b and against native
  Octave 9.3 from HomeBrew, on macOS 13.7.1 Ventura for Intel Macs, and on macOS 14.5
  Sonoma for Apple Silicon Macs.

- Try to execute same code path on Apple Silicon macOS, regardless if running under native
  Matlab/Octave for Apple Silicon ARM, or running under Intel Matlab/Octave via Rosetta2
  emulation. Our license management aggregate stats tell us that a non-trivial fraction of
  users still use Matlab for Intel Macs via Rosetta2 emulation on Apple Silicon, instead of
  the recommended native Matlab/Octave for Apple Silicon. This would cause PTB to misbehave,
  as it would think it runs on an Intel Mac and acts accordingly, instead of adapting to the
  special snowflake that is macOS on Apple Silicon. This will especially cause trouble with
  visual stimulation timing and some visual stimulus presentation. Note that this fix tries
  to fix this, but Psychtoolbox is not and will not be tested for proper compatibility and
  quality when running under Matlab/Octave for Intel via Rosetta2 on Apple Silicon!
  **Switching to native Matlab/Octave for Apple Silicon / ARM is strongly recommended.**

- Audio demos and tests: Request standard latency instead of larger latency on Apple Silicon.
  The lose latency requirement was only meant to accomodate RaspberryPi's, not Apple Silicon.

Enjoy!
