---
layout: post
title: Psychtoolbox updated
categories: news
author: kleinerm
---

Psychtoolbox 3.0.22.2 "The long long slog" was released on 2nd March 2026.

You can download it as a zip file from the following link:

<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/releases/download/3.0.22.2/3.0.22.2.zip>

The complete development history can be found in our GitHub repository.
The release tag is “3.0.22.2”, with the full tree and commit logs under the URL:

<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/tree/3.0.22.2>

### Compatibility changes wrt. Psychtoolbox 3.0.22.1:

- Now requires Octave 10 or later on macOS. Octave 9 and earlier will no
  longer work on macOS.

- HDR support on Intel Macs (via Vulkan display mode) now requires at least macOS 11,
  ideally at least macOS 13 is recommended for better results.

- Be reminded that macOS 26 Tahoe is currently not recommended for use with
  Psychtoolbox, due to severe Tahoe operating system performance bugs, caused
  by Apple and only fixable by Apple. These bugs will affect any software that
  tries to achieve robust, reliable, trustworthy and accurate visual stimulus
  presentation timing and timestamping. It causes framerates to be cut in half!
  Only software with broken timing support will not suffer this degradation, iow.
  to my knowledge all other toolkits in existence. This is the situation as of
  macOS 26.0 - 26.2, the status of macOS 26.3 and later is unknown to myself.

### Highlights:

- None. Mostly lots of bug fixes and smaller feature work and refinements. Most
  of the work done in the last six months is "behind the scenes" work, preparing
  for the future, but not yet visible to users in the form of new features or
  obvious improvements, beyond what is listed here.

### All:

- Eyelink: Fix for use with external display backends, most importantly the
  Vulkan display backed used for macOS on Apple Silicon Macs. This by rewriting
  PsychEyelinkDispatchCallback.m to abstain from using nested helper functions,
  and also some refactoring. Nested helper functions don't play well with the
  Psychtoolbox imaging pipeline - which is always active on Apple Silicon macOS -
  due to some insane limitation that Matlab imposes onto the parent function of
  nested functions. Long story short: Avoid nested functions whenever possible for
  a happier life, and especially don't use them in functions calling `Screen('Flip')`!

  Other parts of Eyelink toolbox and its demos have been refactored to remove use
  of nested functions in various demos.

- VideoCaptureDemo: Increase windowed size for modern cameras. For a better
  non-fullscreen viewing experience.

- VBLSyncTest: Add optional measurement of OpenGL gpu processing time. Calling
  `VBLSyncTest([],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],1);` will plot OpenGL per-frame processing
  time, excluding potential further processing by display backends like Vulkan, VR, etc.

- Vulkan backend: Improved debug output and other help messages. Various bug fixes and
  refinements. Some important bug fixes.

- HDR support: Skip initial HDR meta data setup during startup when not needed.
  On a conformant Vulkan driver, it should not ever be needed. Therefore only set it
  if native display HDR static metadata is available, as queried from Vulkan driver or
  OS, or if it is needed to workaround bugs in the Vulkan ICD. Currently the only driver
  known to require this to get HDR mode and HDR signalling going is AMD's proprietary
  AMDVLK-Pro driver on Windows, and their now deprecated AMDVLK open-source driver for
  Linux. For these AMD provided ICD's, we call the function always, but on these drivers
  we should get valid native display HDR metadata, so it should be fine.

- PredictVisualOnsetForTime(): Only query what you need. To avoid some warning message
  clutter on some system configurations with old graphics hardware.

- PsychLicenseHandling(): Refine some user messages and help text wrt. offline activation.

- Various other smaller refinements, bug fixes and documentation updates.

### Linux:

- Psychtoolbox was built against Matlab R2025b and Octave 6.4 under
  Ubuntu 22.04.5-LTS. It only works on Ubuntu 22.04-LTS and later.

- Upgraded / Rebuilt the mex files for 32-Bit Octave on RaspberryPi OS 11 for 32-Bit
  ARM RaspberryPi machines. Those were left at v3.0.20, and are now also at v3.0.22.
  Other minor fixes for RaspberryPi. Should work on RaspberryPi OS 11 and 12.
  In principle, it also works on the latest RaspberryPi OS 13 based on Debian GNU
  Linux 13 "Trixie", but in practice I strongly recommend against using it on
  RaspberryPi OS 13, as the graphics drivers in that OS version seem to have serious
  performance problems, leading to much lower framerates for stimulus presentation!

- Screen(): Improve troubleshooting help for Matlab library compatibility problems.

- PsychVulkanCore: Now allow use of Mesa version 25.3 and later Vulkan drivers for
                   deep color modes on AMD gpu's, 10 bpc, fp16 (~11 bpc) and
                   16 bpc (= At most 12 bpc on current AMD graphics cards in reality)
                   modes. So far this required the now deprecated / unmaintainted
                   AMDVLK driver to be manually downloaded and installed. This
                   only works for single-display stimulation with Vulkan so far.
                   For multi-display you'd still need AMD's deprecated AMDVLK
                   driver.

- PlayMoviesDemo: Use auto-selected pixelFormat on 64-bit ARM Linux.

- PsychLinuxConfiguration: Fix fallback symlinking to libglut.so.3.12 on Ubuntu 24.04-LTS.
  If users did not install `sudo apt build-dep psychtoolbox-3`, then this did not work.
  Reported by Github user @qx1147, thanks!

### Windows:

- Psychtoolbox was built against Matlab R2025b and Octave 7.3 under Windows 10.

- Mark Windows 10 and Windows 11 as supported, all older versions as unsupported.
  This was quite outdated and slipped through the cracks. Note that development
  and testing still happens almost only on Windows 10, as my only Windows 11 machine
  is unsuitable for proper testing of visual stimulation, because it uses a known to be
  broken Intel integrated graphics chip with totally broken visual stimulation timing.
  Light testing of other features than visual stimulus presentation timing didn't show
  apparent signs of trouble.

  My current Windows 10 machine can't be upgraded to Windows 11, because Microsoft
  doesn't allow it, and I don't have the financial resources atm. to buy a suitable
  machine for Windows 11 testing. However, over 75% of all paying users of Psychtoolbox
  3.0.20 and later already use Windows 11, less than 25% still use Windows 10, and one
  single machine still uses Windows 7! The lack of user feedback about problems with
  Windows 11 suggests that current Psychtoolbox should work fine, or at least as well
  as on Windows 10, on Windows 11 with suitable hardware and especially graphics
  hardware + drivers.

- Implement workarounds against the latest bugs in NVidia's recent Vulkan drivers,
  which caused the Vulkan stimulus window to be hidden behind a static Psychtoolbox
  welcome screen, making it unusable, or at least neccessary for users to manually
  ALT+TAB the stimulus window into the foreground.

  Yet another NVidia problem: HDR doesn't work by default anymore. One now needs to
  change some display driver setting in the NVidia control panels "Manage 3D
  settings" section. Specifically, the "Vulkan/OpenGL present method" must be set
  to "Prefer layered on DXGI Swapchain", as the "Automatic" setting is now broken.

  This restores HDR on NVidia - ofc. only until the next time they break it with a
  new set of bugs... Also, as a new side-effect, it may break OpenGL based stimulus
  presentation timestamping, the other settings work better for OpenGL. This problem
  was observed on Windows 10 22H2 with a NVidia GeForce GTX 1650 Turing family gpu
  and NVidia driver version WHQL 591.74, Vulkan driver version 591.296.0.

### macOS:

- Psychtoolbox was built and tested against Matlab R2025b and Octave 10.2.0 from
  HomeBrew on macOS 13.7.8 Ventura final update for Intel Macs, and on macOS 15.5
  Sequoia with R2025b and Octave 10.3.0 for Apple Silicon Macs. The minimum required
  version of macOS for use of the Vulkan display backend, ie. for HDR support on Intel
  Macs, is now macOS 11.

  macOS 15 is now marked as somewhat supported and tested, at least on Apple Silicon.
  Current state of things:

  macOS 13 Ventura: Tested on Intel MacBookPro 2017 with Ventura 13.7.8 final update. No
                    other macOS versions can be tested anymore on Intel Macs in the future.

  macOS 14 Sonoma: Tested on Silicon MacBookPro 2023 with M2 Pro once. No further testing
                   will be done with macOS 14 in the future.

  macOS 15 Sequoia: Tested on Silicon MacBookAir 2020 with M1 once, and ongoing testing
                    with MacBookPro 2023 with M2 Pro.

  The only actively tested macOS versions are now macOS 13 Ventura for Intel Macs, and
  macOS 15 Sequoia for Apple Silicon Macs. I strongly recommend not upgrading to macOS 26
  Tahoe at this point, as there are known substantial performance regressions for visual
  stimulus presentation, due to severe macOS Tahoe operating system flaws which are not
  fixed by Apple at least as of macOS 26.2. The status on 26.3 and later is unknown at
  this point.

- Eyelink: Fix for use with macOS on Apple Silicon Macs.

- Switch Vulkan display backend from MoltenVK 1.2 to latest upstream MoltenVK 1.4.2 with
  some additional fixes by myself. While I hoped this would fix performance problems with
  macOS 26 Tahoe by increasing efficieny, those hopes were in vain for Apple Silicon Macs.
  It was worth a shot though. This raises the minimum required macOS version for use of
  the Vulkan backend to macOS 11, iow. no change for Apple Silicon, higher requirement for
  Intel Macs, but there it only affects HDR display support.

  Also add some tweaks to improve stability / reduce hangs. This is especially important
  on Apple Silicon Macs. The reliability of stimulus presentation still isn't on par with
  Intel Macs yet. Substantially more work is needed. Right now, any `Screen('Flip', win, twhen)`
  with tWhen more than 1 second into the future, or in general pauses between flips of more
  than 1 second still cause stutter or timeout warnings.

- Screen: Fix "keypress makes annoying beep" suppression for fullscreen windows on the
  secondary (screen number > 0) screen on multi-display setups with Matlab R2025a and
  later on Intel Macs, and with all Matlab and Octave versions in terminal only mode.
  This beep suppression already worked on single display Intel Macs, or for use of
  screen 0 (the main screen) on multi-display setups, but failed on other screens of a
  multi-display Intel Mac.

- Fix SetMouse() and RemapMouse() on Retina displays in Retina compatibility mode.

- Fix panel fitter (e.g., PanelFitterDemo.m) on Apple Silicon Macs with Retina display.
  It is still somewhat broken on Intel Macs, except if opting to use the Vulkan display
  backend. Ie. the default high timing precision opaque fullscreen window display mode
  has somewhat broken panel fitting by default, e.g., in PanelFitterDemo.m. The problem
  is structural and unlikely to get fixed in the remaining lifetime of Psychtoolbox for
  Intel Macs. A way to use the panel fitter on such Retina Intel Macs is to manually
  specify the optional 'fbOverrideRect' parameter to PsychImaging('OpenWindow', ...) to
  be a rectangle the true size/resolution of the Retina display panel, to help Screen.

Enjoy!
