# [BitsPlusImagingPipelineTest](BitsPlusImagingPipelineTest)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychHardware](PsychHardware)>[BitsPlusToolbox](BitsPlusToolbox)>[BitsPlusTests](BitsPlusTests)

[BitsPlusImagingPipelineTest](BitsPlusImagingPipelineTest)([whichScreen=max][,plotdiffs=0][, forcesuccess=0][, winrect=[]][, bitsSharpPortName][, acceptableerror=1])  
  
Tests correct function of Mono++ and Color++ mode with imaging pipeline...  
This test script needs to be run once after each graphics card or  
graphics driver or Psychtoolbox upgrade.   
  
This test tests if the Psychtoolbox image processing pipeline is capable  
to correctly convert a high dynamic range image for the Cambridge  
Research Systems Bits++ / Bits\# box for Mono++ and Color++ mode. This  
test script can be also used to verify proper operation with [VPixx](VPixx) Inc.  
devices like the [DataPixx](DataPixx), [ViewPixx](ViewPixx), and [ProPixx](ProPixx), as they expect the same  
type of color encoding of pixeldata as the devices from CRS.  
  
It does so by generating a test stimulus, converting it into a Bits++  
image via the Matlab [BitsPlusPlus](BitsPlusPlus) toolbox and by use of the imaging  
pipeline. Then it reads back and compares the conversion results of both  
to verify that the imaging pipeline produces exactly the same results  
as the Matlab routines.  
  
If the results are the same, it will write some info file to the  
filesystem to confirm this test was successfully run.  
  
### Optional parameters:  
  
whichScreen  = [Screen](Screen) id of display to test on. Will be the secondardy  
               display if none provided.  
  
plotdiffs    = If set to one, plot diagnostic difference images, if any  
               differences are detected. By default no such images are plotted. No  
               images will be plotted if no differences exist.  
  
forcesuccess = Set this to one if you want to force the test to succeed,  
               despite detected errors, ie., if you want the GPU  
               conversion to be used. Only use this if you really know  
               what you are doing!  
  
winrect = Optional placement rectangle for window. Defaults to fullscreen.  
  
bitsSharpPortName = Optional name of the serial port to which a Bits\# device  
                    is connected. If omitted, the portName will be fetched  
                    from the global Bits\# config file, or auto-detected.  
  
acceptableerror = Maximum acceptable error in absolute output intensity  
                  difference. Differences less than this value are  
                  considered a successful "pass" of the test by the GPU.  
                  The default is 1, ie., 1 unit out of 65535. On CRS  
                  Bits+ and Bits\# this would cause no measureable error,  
                  as these devices only use 14 bits of the 16 bit range,  
                  ie., an error in the least significant bit of intensity  
                  won't show up anyway. On [VPixx](VPixx) Data/View/[ProPixx](ProPixx)  
                  devices, the error will be so small that it will just  
                  disappear in the noise/error caused by other sources of  
                  error, e.g., inaccurate display calibration or gamma  
                  correction, lighting conditions, variation in display  
                  hardware due to operating temperature, voltage  
                  fluctuations etc. The default setting of 1 should be  
                  perfectly fine, even higher values (maybe up to 10)  
                  would be ok in practice.  
  
Please note that this test script can only test if the correct output to  
your systems framebuffer is generated by Psychtoolbox. It can't detect if  
the Bits++ box itself is working correctly with this data. Only visual  
inspection and a photometer/colorimeter test can really tell you if the  
whole system is working correctly!  




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychHardware/BitsPlusToolbox/BitsPlusTests/BitsPlusImagingPipelineTest.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychHardware/BitsPlusToolbox/BitsPlusTests/BitsPlusImagingPipelineTest.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychHardware/BitsPlusToolbox/BitsPlusTests/BitsPlusImagingPipelineTest.m</code>
</div>

