# [EdulogTest](EdulogTest)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychContributed](PsychContributed)>[Eduloggers](Eduloggers)

Perform a test to ensure that eduloggers are working, then plot the data.  
This program will repeat until the user confirms data is acceptible, or  
cancels.  
  
"port" is the port Eduloggers are connected to, this is visible on the  
Neulog API window. "dur" is the duration (s) of the clap test, it must be  
at least 15s for any response to be visible. "sps" is the number of  
samples the edulogger should take per second, up to a maximum of 5.  
"loggers" is a one dimensional cell array, with each string specifying  
the name of a different Edulogger as described in the Neulog API  
literature:  
https://neulog.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/[NeuLog](NeuLog)-API-version-7.pdf  
  
"test" is a structure generated by running an Edulogger experiment,  
consisting of the following fields: Time: The time (s) since the start of  
the experiment of each sample. (double) Concern: Whether or not each  
sample took more than twice the specified sample rate to retrieve  
(logical) Event (optional): Whether or not an event happened at this  
point (logical) An additional field for each kind of Edulogger used,  
containing the measurements taken at each point in data.Time. Fieldnames  
should line up with the names specified in "loggers". "tFig" is a  
Graphics Object containing the graph generated, properties of the graph  
can be changed by editing this object.  




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychContributed/Eduloggers/EdulogTest.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychContributed/Eduloggers/EdulogTest.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychContributed/Eduloggers/EdulogTest.m</code>
</div>

