docs/GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux.md, before:

# [GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux](GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychTests](PsychTests)

[GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux](GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux)([screenids][, nrtrials=6000][, syncmethod=0])  
  
Test synchronizity between the scanout/refresh cycles of the first two  
display heads on screen 'screenids'. If 'screenids' is omitted, we test the  
two heads on the screen with maximal id. 'nrtrial' sample passes  
with a sampling interval of roughly 1 msecs are conducted. 'nrtrials'  
defaults to 6000 samples.  
  
Each sample consists of querying the current rasterbeam position on each  
display head. At the end, the samples of both heads are plotted against each  
other for comparison.  
  
The optional parameter 'syncmethod' if set to 1 will try to synchronize all  
display heads on AMD graphics cards, provided the 'ScreenToHead' mapping  
(see [Screen](Screen)('[Preference](Preference)','ScreenToHead',...); is set up properly for your setup.  
On a single x-screen setup this will always be the case, whereas on a multi  
x-screen setup tweaking will often be required.  
  
A 'syncmethod' of 2 is also implemented for non-AMD graphics cards, but this  
implementation is so experimental that it is guaranteed to fail miserably in  
practice, so don't bother trying.  
  
The help text printed to the command window tells you how to interpret the plots.  




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychTests/GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychTests/GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychTests/GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux.m</code>
</div>

Commit message:

Doc update for beta update with RPi-4/400 support.

docs/GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux.md, after:

# [GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux](GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychTests](PsychTests)

[GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux](GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux)([screenids][, nrtrials=6000][, syncmethod=0])  
  
Test synchronizity between the scanout/refresh cycles of the first two  
display heads on screen 'screenids'. If 'screenids' is omitted, we test the  
two heads on the screen with maximal id. 'nrtrial' sample passes  
with a sampling interval of roughly 1 msecs are conducted. 'nrtrials'  
defaults to 6000 samples.  
  
Each sample consists of querying the current rasterbeam position on each  
display head. At the end, the samples of both heads are plotted against each  
other for comparison. On graphics cards without beamposition query support, e.g.,  
Intel graphics, [RaspberryPi](RaspberryPi), or modern AMD gpu's with DCN display engine, instead  
timestamps of the end of vblank are collected and plotted against each other for  
comparison. In this case, the default duration if 'nrtrials' is omitted will be  
roughly 10 seconds of runtime.  
  
In case of older AMD gpu's with DCE display engines (AMD Radeon Vega and earlier),  
the following applies:  
  
The optional parameter 'syncmethod' if set to 1 will try to synchronize all  
display heads on AMD graphics cards, provided the 'ScreenToHead' mapping  
(see [Screen](Screen)('[Preference](Preference)','ScreenToHead',...); is set up properly for your setup.  
On a single x-screen setup this will always be the case, whereas on a multi  
x-screen setup tweaking will often be required.  
  
A 'syncmethod' of 2 is also implemented for non-AMD graphics cards, but this  
implementation is so experimental that it is guaranteed to fail miserably in  
practice, so don't bother trying.  
  
The help text printed to the command window tells you how to interpret the plots.  




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychTests/GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychTests/GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychTests/GraphicsDisplaySyncAcrossDualHeadsTestLinux.m</code>
</div>
