docs/GStreamer.md, before:

# [GStreamer](GStreamer)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychDocumentation](PsychDocumentation)

[[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) - Installation instructions for the [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) media framework.  
  
Psychtoolbox uses the [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) multi-media framework for all multi-media  
related operations. On MS-Windows and macOS with Matlab, [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) is also  
needed for high quality text rendering via [Screen](Screen)('DrawText').  
  
All movie playback, movie creation, video capture and video recording  
operations are based on [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)). These functions won't work without a  
working [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) installation on your system (with the exception of  
video capture from firewire and USB-Vision DCAM/IIDC machine vision  
cameras on Linux, where high-performance multi-camera capture works via  
libdc1394, see 'help VideoCaptureDC1394', and [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) is only needed  
for video recording, not live capture).  
  
You will need at least version 1.8 of [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) on Linux, and at least  
version 1.18 on Windows and macOS, but we recommend to use the latest  
available stable release of the version 1 series. For limited HDR  
playback support on Linux, you will need at least [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) 1.16 + some  
modifications to your playback scripts. For full HDR playback support on  
Linux, just as on Windows, you will need at least version 1.18. HDR  
playback is not yet supported on macOS due to macOS operating system  
deficiencies - an insufficiently advanced [OpenGL](OpenGL) implementation.  
  
### Installation instructions:  
  
  
### GNU/Linux:  
  
Any decent Linux distribution will include support for [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer))-1 in its  
package management system, so you can easily install it via the software  
management tools of your system. If you install PTB via [NeuroDebian](NeuroDebian), then  
most [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) packages will get automatically installed, with the  
possible exception of some optional packages with potential license or  
patent restrictions, so read on.  
  
You may need to install those extra plugin packages to play back all  
common audio and video file formats like MP3 and MP4. Video or movie  
recording with high quality [(DivX]((DivX), H.264) may also require recent  
versions of additional plugin packages which contain support for these  
formats. These may not installed by default due to licensing and patent  
clauses in place for some territories on this planet. You may want to  
specifically add them to your system depending on your format needs.  
  
An easy test is to run [SimpleMovieDemo](SimpleMovieDemo). If it fails or only plays sound,  
but not video, then some of the plugins are missing, e.g., the important  
"gst-libav" plugins. For basic HDR playback support, Ubuntu 20.04 LTS  
(and maybe 18.04 LTS - untested) would suffice. For full HDR playback  
support, you would need Ubuntu 20.10, or some 3rd party provided  
[[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) 1.18+ packages, or packages built from source.  
  
  
### MS-Windows and Apple OSX:  
  
macOS: You must install [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) if you want to use multi-media functions or  
if you want to use the high-quality text renderer with Matlab, which provides  
consistent, fast, high-quality text rendering, instead of the lower quality,  
officially unsupported, legacy Apple [CoreText](CoreText) text renderer.  
  
If you don't intend to use such functionality then installation of [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer))  
is optional on macOS. [Screen](Screen) will work normally, but abort with an error  
message if you try to use any multi-media functions.  
  
Windows: You must install [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) regardless if you want to use multi-media  
functionality or not, as the [Screen](Screen)() mex file won't work at all without  
[[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) installed! You must install at least version 1.18.0 of the MSVC  
variant of [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)).  
  
### Here is a FAQ entry on resolving [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) problems:  
  
<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/wiki/FAQ\#how-to-resolve-gstreamer-problems\>  
  
NOTE: If [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) complains about not being able to find some plugins,  
e.g., the video playback doesn't work because there is a [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer))  
configuration problem, then it can help to delete the [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) plugin  
registry to force a rebuild of that database. E.g., under Windows-10, if  
your login user name would be Bob, you would probably have to delete the  
file:  
  
'C:\Users\Bob\[AppData](AppData)\Local\Microsoft\Windows\[INetCache](INetCache)\gstreamer-1.0\registry.x86\_64-msvc.bin'  
  
  
### Download and install the latest 64-Bit ("x86\_64") [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) runtimes from:  
  
<http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/download/\>  
  
The following [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) runtime packages have been tested for good compatibility  
with Psychtoolbox 3.0.18 as of October 2021:  
  
For MS-Windows: 64-Bit Intel MSVC runtime v1.18.5 for use with 64-Bit Matlab/Octave.  
  
<https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/data/pkg/windows/1.18.5/msvc/gstreamer-1.0-msvc-x86\_64-1.18.5.msi\>  
  
You \*must\* install the MSVC variants of [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)), not the [MinGW64](MinGW64) variants!  
  
  
For Apple macOS: Runtime v1.18.5  
  
<https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/data/pkg/osx/1.18.5/gstreamer-1.0-1.18.5-x86\_64.pkg\>  
  
When the installer asks you to select the components it should install,  
select a "Full installation" or "Complete installation", or if those  
options do not exist then select a "Custom installation" (instead of a  
"Basic installation" or such). Then, if you chose a "Custom installation"  
in the displayed list of packages to install, select \*all\* components  
manually, if you want support for all video formats and all  
functionality. Without this, many popular video formats like H264 video  
will not play at all, or video recording / video capture and similar  
functions may not work. In fact, even our own demos, e.g.,  
[SimpleMovieDemo](SimpleMovieDemo) \*will fail\* if you don't have all codecs installed! -\> If  
[SimpleMovieDemo](SimpleMovieDemo) doesn't work, then the most likely cause is that you  
didn't select all [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) packages for installation, so restart the  
installer and repeat installation with the full set of packages.  
  




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/GStreamer.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/GStreamer.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/GStreamer.m</code>
</div>

Commit message:

Update to no longer recommend "latest GStreamer version" on Windows.
GStreamer 1.20 on MS-Windows has broken fontconfig support, so
Windows users should stick to our latest tested 1.18.5 for the
time being.

docs/GStreamer.md, after:

# [GStreamer](GStreamer)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychDocumentation](PsychDocumentation)

[[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) - Installation instructions for the [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) media framework.  
  
Psychtoolbox uses the [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) multi-media framework for all multi-media  
related operations. On MS-Windows and macOS with Matlab, [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) is also  
needed for high quality text rendering via [Screen](Screen)('DrawText').  
  
All movie playback, movie creation, video capture and video recording  
operations are based on [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)). These functions won't work without a  
working [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) installation on your system (with the exception of  
video capture from firewire and USB-Vision DCAM/IIDC machine vision  
cameras on Linux, where high-performance multi-camera capture works via  
libdc1394, see 'help VideoCaptureDC1394', and [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) is only needed  
for video recording, not live capture).  
  
You will need at least version 1.8 of [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) on Linux, and at least  
version 1.18 on Windows and macOS, but we recommend to use the latest  
stable release of the version 1 series tested by us (see below). For limited HDR  
playback support on Linux, you will need at least [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) 1.16 + some  
modifications to your playback scripts. For full HDR playback support on  
Linux, just as on Windows, you will need at least version 1.18. HDR  
playback is not yet supported on macOS due to macOS operating system  
deficiencies - an insufficiently advanced [OpenGL](OpenGL) implementation.  
  
### Installation instructions:  
  
  
### GNU/Linux:  
  
Any decent Linux distribution will include support for [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer))-1 in its  
package management system, so you can easily install it via the software  
management tools of your system. If you install PTB via [NeuroDebian](NeuroDebian), then  
most [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) packages will get automatically installed, with the  
possible exception of some optional packages with potential license or  
patent restrictions, so read on.  
  
You may need to install those extra plugin packages to play back all  
common audio and video file formats like MP3 and MP4. Video or movie  
recording with high quality [(DivX]((DivX), H.264) may also require recent  
versions of additional plugin packages which contain support for these  
formats. These may not installed by default due to licensing and patent  
clauses in place for some territories on this planet. You may want to  
specifically add them to your system depending on your format needs.  
  
An easy test is to run [SimpleMovieDemo](SimpleMovieDemo). If it fails or only plays sound,  
but not video, then some of the plugins are missing, e.g., the important  
"gst-libav" plugins. For basic HDR playback support, Ubuntu 20.04 LTS  
(and maybe 18.04 LTS - untested) would suffice. For full HDR playback  
support, you would need Ubuntu 20.10, or some 3rd party provided  
[[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) 1.18+ packages, or packages built from source.  
  
  
### MS-Windows and Apple OSX:  
  
macOS: You must install [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) if you want to use multi-media functions or  
if you want to use the high-quality text renderer with Matlab, which provides  
consistent, fast, high-quality text rendering, instead of the lower quality,  
officially unsupported, legacy Apple [CoreText](CoreText) text renderer.  
  
If you don't intend to use such functionality then installation of [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer))  
is optional on macOS. [Screen](Screen) will work normally, but abort with an error  
message if you try to use any multi-media functions.  
  
Windows: You must install [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) regardless if you want to use multi-media  
functionality or not, as the [Screen](Screen)() mex file won't work at all without  
[[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) installed! You must install at least version 1.18.0 of the MSVC  
variant of [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)).  
  
### Here is a FAQ entry on resolving [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) problems:  
  
<https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/wiki/FAQ\#how-to-resolve-gstreamer-problems\>  
  
NOTE: If [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) complains about not being able to find some plugins,  
e.g., the video playback doesn't work because there is a [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer))  
configuration problem, then it can help to delete the [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) plugin  
registry to force a rebuild of that database. E.g., under Windows-10, if  
your login user name would be Bob, you would probably have to delete the  
file:  
  
'C:\Users\Bob\[AppData](AppData)\Local\Microsoft\Windows\[INetCache](INetCache)\gstreamer-1.0\registry.x86\_64-msvc.bin'  
  
  
### Download and install the latest 64-Bit ("x86\_64") [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) runtimes from:  
  
<http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/download/\>  
  
The following [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) runtime packages have been tested for good compatibility  
with Psychtoolbox 3.0.18 as of October 2021:  
  
For MS-Windows: 64-Bit Intel MSVC runtime v1.18.5 for use with 64-Bit Matlab/Octave.  
  
<https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/data/pkg/windows/1.18.5/msvc/gstreamer-1.0-msvc-x86\_64-1.18.5.msi\>  
  
You \*must\* install the MSVC variants of [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)), not the [MinGW64](MinGW64) variants!  
  
  
For Apple macOS: Runtime v1.18.5  
  
<https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/data/pkg/osx/1.18.5/gstreamer-1.0-1.18.5-x86\_64.pkg\>  
  
When the installer asks you to select the components it should install,  
select a "Full installation" or "Complete installation", or if those  
options do not exist then select a "Custom installation" (instead of a  
"Basic installation" or such). Then, if you chose a "Custom installation"  
in the displayed list of packages to install, select \*all\* components  
manually, if you want support for all video formats and all  
functionality. Without this, many popular video formats like H264 video  
will not play at all, or video recording / video capture and similar  
functions may not work. In fact, even our own demos, e.g.,  
[SimpleMovieDemo](SimpleMovieDemo) \*will fail\* if you don't have all codecs installed! -\> If  
[SimpleMovieDemo](SimpleMovieDemo) doesn't work, then the most likely cause is that you  
didn't select all [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer)) packages for installation, so restart the  
installer and repeat installation with the full set of packages.  
  




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/GStreamer.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/GStreamer.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/GStreamer.m</code>
</div>
