docs/MeasMonXYZ.md, before:

# [MeasMonXYZ](MeasMonXYZ)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychCal](PsychCal)

 XYZ = [MeasMonXYZ](MeasMonXYZ)(window,settings,[syncMode],[whichMeterType])  
  
 Measure the XYZ of a series of monitor settings.  
  
 This routine is specific to go with [CalibrateMon](CalibrateMon),  
 as it depends on the action of [SetMon](SetMon).   
  
 If whichMeterType is passed and set to 0, then the routine  
 returns random spectra.  This is useful for testing when  
 you don't have a meter.  
  
 Other valid types:  
  1 - Use PR650 (default)  
  
 10/26/93  dhb      Wrote it based on ccc code.  
 11/12/93  dhb      Modified to use [SetColor](SetColor).  
    6/23/94     ccc     Modified it from [MeasMonSpd](MeasMonSpd).m for  
                                    the purpose of measuring XYZ  
    8/9/94      dhb     Added code to go into sync mode  
                                    And then commented it out.  
 8/11/94        dhb     Sync mode back in  
 8/15/94        dhb     Sync mode as argument.  
 4/12/97   dhb   New toolbox compatibility, take window and bits args.  
 8/26/97        dhb, pbe Add noMeterAvail option.  
 4/7/99    dhb   Add argument for radius board.  Compact default arg code.  
 8/14/00   dhb   Call to CMETER('SetParams') conditional on OS9.  
 8/20/00   dhb   Remove bits arg from call to [SetColor](SetColor).  
 8/21/00   dhb   Remove dependence on RADIUS flag.  This is now handled inside of [SetColor](SetColor).  
              dhb   Change calling conventions to remove unused args.  
 9/14/00   dhb   Sync mode no longer used.  Arg passed for backwards compatibility.  
 2/27/02   dhb, ly  Pass whichMeterType rather than noMeterAvail.  




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychCal/MeasMonXYZ.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychCal/MeasMonXYZ.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychCal/MeasMonXYZ.m</code>
</div>

Commit message:

Documentation update for Psychtoolbox 3.0.17 initial release.
- Basic Vulkan support.
- HDR support on Linux and Windows.
- CSC improvements.
- ColorCal-II support for regular measurement infra.
- UHD/HDR movie playback on Linux and Windows.
- OpenEXR support and sample images.
- OpenGL 4.6 MOGL support.
- GStreamer requirements update.
- Improved installer/updater.
- Launch of user-facing business model.
- Brightside deprecation.
- Misc other.

docs/MeasMonXYZ.md, after:

# [MeasMonXYZ](MeasMonXYZ)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychCal](PsychCal)

XYZ = [MeasMonXYZ](MeasMonXYZ)(window, settings [, whichMeterType=1])  
  
Measure the XYZ of a series of monitor settings.  
  
### Usage:  
  
'window' Onscreen window handle for window to present into.  
'settings' a 3-rows by nMeas columns matrix with each column defining one  
[r,g,b]' color value to measure.  
  
### 'whichMeterType' type of Colorimeter to use:  
  
  0 - Return random spectra. This is useful for testing when you don't have a meter.  
\> 0 - Use [MeasXYZ](MeasXYZ)(whichMeterType) to measure. See "help [MeasXYZ](MeasXYZ)" for available meter types.  
  




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychCal/MeasMonXYZ.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychCal/MeasMonXYZ.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychCal/MeasMonXYZ.m</code>
</div>
