docs/MinimalisticOpenGLDemo.md, before:

# [MinimalisticOpenGLDemo](MinimalisticOpenGLDemo)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychDemos](PsychDemos)>[OpenGL4MatlabDemos](OpenGL4MatlabDemos)

[MinimalisticOpenGLDemo](MinimalisticOpenGLDemo)([multiSample][, imagingPipeline][, checkerBoardTexture][, doAccumulate=0])  
  
This demo demonstrates use of [OpenGL](OpenGL) commands in a Matlab script to  
perform some very boring 3D rendering in Psychtoolbox.  
  
It shows a single static ball, lit with default lighting and exactly one  
light source. This is meant to demonstrate the minimum amount of code to  
draw anything visible with perspective projection. It also draws a static  
teapot and some little box with a cone as roof.  
  
Then it waits for a keyboard press.  
  
After that it demonstrates how to do basic texture mapping and animation:  
It loads a JPEG image of the earths surface from the filesystem, using  
Matlabs imread() function, then converts the image into a Psychtoolbox  
texture using [Screen](Screen)('MakeTexture'), then provides this texture as a  
standard [OpenGL](OpenGL) compatible texture using [Screen](Screen)('GetOpenGLTexture').  
This standard texture is applied to a sphere using standard [OpenGL](OpenGL) commands  
and finally the sphere is drawn as a rotating object in a simple animation  
loop. --\> You'll see a rotating earth.  
  
Stop the demo by pressing any key and it will finish.  
  
The optional parameter 'multiSample' allows to enable anti-aliased  
drawing with 'multiSample' samples per pixel on hardware that supports  
this.  
  
The optional parameter 'imagingPipeline' allows (if set to non-zero  
value) to enable the PTB image processing pipeline, just to test that as  
well.  
  
The optional parameter 'checkerBoardTexture' allows (if set to non-zero  
value) to apply a checkerboard texture to the spinning sphere, instead of  
a "earth surface texture image". This demonstrates algorithmic texture  
generation and the use of trilinear mipmap filtering to improve image  
quality for high frequency edges and such...  
  
The optional parameter 'doAccumulate' allows to demonstrate an additional  
motion blur effect by use of the accumulation buffer. If you set the  
imagingPipeline flag to zero and doAccumulate to 1, then use of the -  
nowadays deprecated and extremely slow - accumulation buffer is  
demonstrated. If you set imagingPipeline to 1 and doAccumulate to 2 then  
a new fast technique is demonstrated. Both achieve the same visual effect  
with very similar code, but the latter technique is well supported on  
recent hardware, much more flexible and much faster.  
  
  
### Notable implementation details regarding use of [OpenGL](OpenGL):  
  
The call [InitializeMatlabOpenGL](InitializeMatlabOpenGL) at the top of the script initializes the  
Matlab-[OpenGL](OpenGL) toolbox and enables the 3D gfx support in Psychtoolbox to  
allow proper interfacing between the [OpenGL](OpenGL) toolbox and Psychtoolbox.  
  
After this call, all [OpenGL](OpenGL) functions are made available to Matlab with  
the same - or a very similar - calling syntax as in the C programming  
language. [OpenGL](OpenGL) constants are made available in a format that is optimized  
for Matlab, where the first underscore is replaced by a dot, e.g.,  
GL.DEPTH\_TEST, instead of the C-style GL\_DEPTH\_TEST.  
  
In order to execute [OpenGL](OpenGL) 3D drawing commands to draw 3D stims into a  
Psychtoolbox Onscreen- or offscreen window, one needs to call  
[Screen](Screen)('BeginOpenGL', windowPtr). After [OpenGL](OpenGL) drawing and before  
execution of standard [Screen](Screen)() commands, one needs to call  
[Screen](Screen)('EndOpenGL', windowPtr) to tell Psychtoolbox that 3D drawing is  
finished.  
  
Some [OpenGL](OpenGL) functions that return complex parameters to Matlab are not  
yet implemented - this is work in progress. The performance will be also  
lower than when coding in a compiled language like C++ or C -- that's the  
Matlab tax you'll have to pay ;-)  
  
The toolbox checks after execution of each single [OpenGL](OpenGL) command if it  
caused some error. It aborts your script with an error message, if so. If  
you are happy with your code and want to disable these error checks in  
order to squeeze out a bit more speed, you can call  
[InitializeMatlabOpenGL](InitializeMatlabOpenGL)(0,0) instead of [InitializeMatlabOpenGL](InitializeMatlabOpenGL) at the top  
of your script. This will disable automatic error-checking. You can then  
use the commands gluErrorString or glGetError to perform manual error-checks  
in your code if you want.  
  
Apart from that, use of [OpenGL](OpenGL) for Matlab is the same as [OpenGL](OpenGL) for the C  
programming language. If you are used to [OpenGL](OpenGL) coding in C, it should be  
a zero effort transition to code in Matlab+PTB. If you don't know [OpenGL](OpenGL)  
then get yourself one of the many good books or visit one of the many  
[OpenGL](OpenGL) tutorials on the internet.  
  
The [OpenGL](OpenGL) Red Book is a great introduction and reference for [OpenGL](OpenGL)  
programming. Release 1.0 is available online, later releases can be  
purchased in any good book store:  
  
http://www.opengl.org/documentation/red\_book\_1.0/  
  
### For more infos, code samples, tutorials, online documentation, go to:  
  
http://www.opengl.org  
  
The [OpenGL](OpenGL) for Matlab toolbox was developed and contributed under  
GPL license by Prof. Richard F. Murray, University of York, Canada and  
ported to M$-Windows and GNU/Linux and tuned by Mario Kleiner.  
  
The earth surface JPEG-image is taken from the Linux/KDE application  
kdeworldclock. kdeworldclock and its components are licensed under  
GPL.   




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDemos/OpenGL4MatlabDemos/MinimalisticOpenGLDemo.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDemos/OpenGL4MatlabDemos/MinimalisticOpenGLDemo.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychDemos/OpenGL4MatlabDemos/MinimalisticOpenGLDemo.m</code>
</div>

Commit message:

Documentation update for Psychtoolbox 3.0.17 initial release.
- Basic Vulkan support.
- HDR support on Linux and Windows.
- CSC improvements.
- ColorCal-II support for regular measurement infra.
- UHD/HDR movie playback on Linux and Windows.
- OpenEXR support and sample images.
- OpenGL 4.6 MOGL support.
- GStreamer requirements update.
- Improved installer/updater.
- Launch of user-facing business model.
- Brightside deprecation.
- Misc other.

docs/MinimalisticOpenGLDemo.md, after:

# [MinimalisticOpenGLDemo](MinimalisticOpenGLDemo)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychDemos](PsychDemos)>[OpenGL4MatlabDemos](OpenGL4MatlabDemos)

[MinimalisticOpenGLDemo](MinimalisticOpenGLDemo)([multiSample][, imagingPipeline][, checkerBoardTexture][, doAccumulate=0][, hdr=0])  
  
This demo demonstrates use of [OpenGL](OpenGL) commands in a Matlab script to  
perform some very boring 3D rendering in Psychtoolbox.  
  
It shows a single static ball, lit with default lighting and exactly one  
light source. This is meant to demonstrate the minimum amount of code to  
draw anything visible with perspective projection. It also draws a static  
teapot and some little box with a cone as roof.  
  
Then it waits for a keyboard press.  
  
After that it demonstrates how to do basic texture mapping and animation:  
It loads a JPEG image of the earths surface from the filesystem, using  
Matlabs imread() function, then converts the image into a Psychtoolbox  
texture using [Screen](Screen)('MakeTexture'), then provides this texture as a  
standard [OpenGL](OpenGL) compatible texture using [Screen](Screen)('GetOpenGLTexture').  
This standard texture is applied to a sphere using standard [OpenGL](OpenGL) commands  
and finally the sphere is drawn as a rotating object in a simple animation  
loop. --\> You'll see a rotating earth.  
  
Stop the demo by pressing any key and it will finish.  
  
The optional parameter 'multiSample' allows to enable anti-aliased  
drawing with 'multiSample' samples per pixel on hardware that supports  
this.  
  
The optional parameter 'imagingPipeline' allows (if set to non-zero  
value) to enable the PTB image processing pipeline, just to test that as  
well.  
  
The optional parameter 'checkerBoardTexture' allows (if set to non-zero  
value) to apply a checkerboard texture to the spinning sphere, instead of  
a "earth surface texture image". This demonstrates algorithmic texture  
generation and the use of trilinear mipmap filtering to improve image  
quality for high frequency edges and such...  
  
The optional parameter 'doAccumulate' allows to demonstrate an additional  
motion blur effect by use of the accumulation buffer. If you set the  
imagingPipeline flag to zero and doAccumulate to 1, then use of the -  
nowadays deprecated and extremely slow - accumulation buffer is  
demonstrated. If you set imagingPipeline to 1 and doAccumulate to 2 then  
a new fast technique is demonstrated. Both achieve the same visual effect  
with very similar code, but the latter technique is well supported on  
recent hardware, much more flexible and much faster.  
  
The optional parameter 'hdr' if set to 1 will set the window up for display  
on a HDR ("High Dynamic Range") display device if your system setup allows  
this. See "help [PsychHDR](PsychHDR)" for system requirements and setup instructions.  
  
### Notable implementation details regarding use of [OpenGL](OpenGL):  
  
The call [InitializeMatlabOpenGL](InitializeMatlabOpenGL) at the top of the script initializes the  
Matlab-[OpenGL](OpenGL) toolbox and enables the 3D gfx support in Psychtoolbox to  
allow proper interfacing between the [OpenGL](OpenGL) toolbox and Psychtoolbox.  
  
After this call, all [OpenGL](OpenGL) functions are made available to Matlab with  
the same - or a very similar - calling syntax as in the C programming  
language. [OpenGL](OpenGL) constants are made available in a format that is optimized  
for Matlab, where the first underscore is replaced by a dot, e.g.,  
GL.DEPTH\_TEST, instead of the C-style GL\_DEPTH\_TEST.  
  
In order to execute [OpenGL](OpenGL) 3D drawing commands to draw 3D stims into a  
Psychtoolbox Onscreen- or offscreen window, one needs to call  
[Screen](Screen)('BeginOpenGL', windowPtr). After [OpenGL](OpenGL) drawing and before  
execution of standard [Screen](Screen)() commands, one needs to call  
[Screen](Screen)('EndOpenGL', windowPtr) to tell Psychtoolbox that 3D drawing is  
finished.  
  
Some [OpenGL](OpenGL) functions that return complex parameters to Matlab are not  
yet implemented - this is work in progress. The performance will be also  
lower than when coding in a compiled language like C++ or C -- that's the  
Matlab tax you'll have to pay ;-)  
  
The toolbox checks after execution of each single [OpenGL](OpenGL) command if it  
caused some error. It aborts your script with an error message, if so. If  
you are happy with your code and want to disable these error checks in  
order to squeeze out a bit more speed, you can call  
[InitializeMatlabOpenGL](InitializeMatlabOpenGL)(0,0) instead of [InitializeMatlabOpenGL](InitializeMatlabOpenGL) at the top  
of your script. This will disable automatic error-checking. You can then  
use the commands gluErrorString or glGetError to perform manual error-checks  
in your code if you want.  
  
Apart from that, use of [OpenGL](OpenGL) for Matlab is the same as [OpenGL](OpenGL) for the C  
programming language. If you are used to [OpenGL](OpenGL) coding in C, it should be  
a zero effort transition to code in Matlab+PTB. If you don't know [OpenGL](OpenGL)  
then get yourself one of the many good books or visit one of the many  
[OpenGL](OpenGL) tutorials on the internet.  
  
The [OpenGL](OpenGL) Red Book is a great introduction and reference for [OpenGL](OpenGL)  
programming. Release 1.0 is available online, later releases can be  
purchased in any good book store:  
  
http://www.opengl.org/documentation/red\_book\_1.0/  
  
### For more infos, code samples, tutorials, online documentation, go to:  
  
http://www.opengl.org  
  
The earth surface JPEG-image is taken from the Linux/KDE application  
kdeworldclock. kdeworldclock and its components are licensed under  
GPL.   




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDemos/OpenGL4MatlabDemos/MinimalisticOpenGLDemo.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDemos/OpenGL4MatlabDemos/MinimalisticOpenGLDemo.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychDemos/OpenGL4MatlabDemos/MinimalisticOpenGLDemo.m</code>
</div>
