docs/PsychPortAudio-Open.md, before:

# [PsychPortAudio('Open')](PsychPortAudio-Open) 
##### [Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychPortAudio](PsychPortAudio).{mex*} subfunction

pahandle = PsychPortAudio('Open' [, deviceid][, mode][, reqlatencyclass][, freq][, channels][, buffersize][, suggestedLatency][, selectchannels][, specialFlags=0]);

Open a [PortAudio](PortAudio) audio device and initialize it. Returns a 'pahandle' device  
handle for the device.  
  
On most operating systems you can open each physical sound device only once per  
running session. If you feel the need to call 'Open' multiple times on the same  
audio device, read the section about slave devices and the help 'PsychPortAudio  
[OpenSlave](OpenSlave)?' instead for a suitable solution.  
All parameters are optional and have reasonable defaults. 'deviceid' Index to  
select amongst multiple logical audio devices supported by [PortAudio](PortAudio). Defaults  
to whatever the systems default sound device is. Different device id's may  
select the same physical device, but controlled by a different low-level sound  
system. E.g., Windows has about five different sound subsystems. 'mode' Mode of  
operation. Defaults to 1 == sound playback only. Can be set to 2 == audio  
capture, or 3 for simultaneous capture and playback of sound. Note however that  
mode 3 (full duplex) does not work reliably on all sound hardware. On some  
hardware this mode may crash hard! There is also a special monitoring mode == 7,  
which only works for full duplex devices when using the same number of input-  
and outputchannels. This mode allows direct feedback of captured sounds back to  
the speakers with minimal latency and without involvement of your script at all,  
however no sound can be captured during this time and your code mostly doesn't  
have any control over timing etc.   
You can also define a audio device as a master device by adding the value 8 to  
mode. Master devices themselves are not directly used to playback or capture  
sound. Instead one can create (multiple) slave devices that are attached to a  
master device. Each slave can be controlled independently to playback or record  
sound through a subset of the channels of the master device. This basically  
allows to virtualize a soundcard. See help for subfunction 'OpenSlave' for more  
info.  
'reqlatencyclass' Allows to select how aggressive [PsychPortAudio](PsychPortAudio) should be about  
minimizing sound latency and getting good deterministic timing, i.e. how to  
trade off latency vs. system load and playing nicely with other sound  
applications on the system. Level 0 means: Don't care about latency or timing  
precision. This mode works always and with all settings, plays nicely with other  
sound applications. Level 1 (the default) means: Try to get the lowest latency  
that is possible under the constraint of reliable playback, freedom of choice  
for all parameters and interoperability with other applications. Level 2 means:  
Take full control over the audio device, even if this causes other sound  
applications to fail or shutdown. Level 3 means: As level 2, but request the  
most aggressive settings for the given device. Level 4: Same as 3, but fail if  
device can't meet the strictest requirements. 'freq' Requested playback/capture  
rate in samples per second (Hz). Defaults to a value that depends on the  
requested latency mode. 'channels' Number of audio channels to use, defaults to  
2 for stereo. If you perform simultaneous playback and recording, you can  
provide a 2 element vector for 'channels', specifying different numbers of  
output channels and input channels. The first element in such a vector defines  
the number of playback channels, the 2nd element defines capture channels. E.g.,  
[2, 1] would define 2 playback channels (stereo) and 1 recording channel. See  
the optional 'selectchannels' argument for selection of physical device channels  
on multi- channel cards.  
'buffersize' requested size and number of internal audio buffers, smaller  
numbers mean lower latency but higher system load and some risk of overloading,  
which would cause audio dropouts. 'suggestedLatency' optional requested latency  
in seconds. [PortAudio](PortAudio) selects internal operating parameters depending on  
sampleRate, suggestedLatency and buffersize as well as device internal  
properties to optimize for low latency output. Best left alone, only here as  
manual override in case all the auto-tuning cleverness fails.  
'selectchannels' optional matrix with mappings of logical channels to device  
channels: If you only want to use a subset of the channels present on your sound  
card, e.g., only 2 playback channels on a 16 channel soundcard, then you'd set  
the 'channels' argument to 2. The 'selectchannels' argument allows you to  
select, e.g.,  which two of the 16 channels to use for playback.  
'selectchannels' is a one row by 'channels' matrix with mappings for pure  
playback or pure capture. For full-duplex mode (playback and capture),  
'selectchannels' must be a 2 rows by max(channels) column matrix. row 1 will  
define playback channel mappings, whereas row 2 will then define capture channel  
mappings. Ideally, the number in the i'th column will define which physical  
device channel will be used for playback or capture of the i'th [PsychPortAudio](PsychPortAudio)  
channel (the i'th row of your sound matrix), but note various significant  
limitations on MS-Windows! Numbering of physical device channels starts with  
zero! Example: Both, playback and simultaneous recording are requested and  
'channels' equals 2, ie. two playback channels and two capture channels. If  
you'd specify 'selectchannels' as [0, 6 ; 12, 14], then playback would happen to  
device channels zero and six, sound would be captured from device channels 12  
and 14.  
Limitations: Please note that 'selectchannels' is currently only supported on  
macOS and on Windows WASAPI and only with some sound cards in some  
configurations. The parameter is silently ignored on non-capable  
hardware/driver/operating system software, or in unsupported configurations,  
e.g., it will do nothing on Linux, or on Windows with other sound backends than  
WASAPI. On Windows, channel mapping only works for sound playback, not for sound  
capture. On Windows, you can only select which physical sound channels are used,  
but not to which logical sound channel they are assigned. This means that  
effectively the entries in the 'selectchannels' row vector will get sorted in  
ascending order, e.g., a vector of [12, 0, 4, 2] for a 4 channel setup will be  
interpreted as if it were [0, 2, 4, 12]! This is a limitation of the Windows  
sound system, nothing we could do about it.  
All these limitations of 'selectchannels' make your scripts quite non-portable  
to different operating systems and sound cards if you choose to use this  
parameter, so use with caution!  
  
'specialFlags' Optional flags: Default to zero, can be or'ed or added together  
with the following flags/settings:  
1 = Never prime output stream. By default the output stream is primed. Don't  
bother if you don't know what this means.  
2 = Always clamp audio data to the valid -1.0 to 1.0 range. Clamping is enabled  
by default.  
4 = Never clamp audio data.  
8 = Always dither output audio data. By default, dithering is enabled in normal  
mode, and disabled in low-latency mode. Dithering adds a stochastic noise  
pattern to the least significant bit of each output sample to reduce the impact  
of audio quantization artifacts. Dithering can improve signal to noise ratio and  
quality of output sound, but it is more compute intense and it could change very  
low-level properties of the audio signal, because what you hear is not exactly  
what you specified.  
16 = Never dither audio data, not even in normal mode.  
  
  


###See also:
Close [GetDeviceSettings](PsychPortAudio-GetDeviceSettings)

Commit message:

Clarify limitations of 'Open' for PsychPortAudio
The wording of the documentation for PsychPortAudio('Open') gives the impression that only one stream per device can ever be opened, but calling `run` from [the Python demo for PPA](https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/blob/master/PsychPython/demos/ppatest_pythonic.py), which opens and closes a new stream each time, works fine when called multiple times in a single session. The proposed wording clarifies that the limitation is one stream *at a time* rather than one stream *total*.

The link to docs for 'OpenSlave' was also broken, so I added the prefix `PsychPortAudio-` while in the neighbourhood.

docs/PsychPortAudio-Open.md, after:

# [PsychPortAudio('Open')](PsychPortAudio-Open) 
##### [Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychPortAudio](PsychPortAudio).{mex*} subfunction

pahandle = PsychPortAudio('Open' [, deviceid][, mode][, reqlatencyclass][, freq][, channels][, buffersize][, suggestedLatency][, selectchannels][, specialFlags=0]);

Open a [PortAudio](PortAudio) audio device and initialize it. Returns a 'pahandle' device  
handle for the device.  
  
On most operating systems you can open only one stream at a time for each 
physical device. If you feel the need to call 'Open' multiple times on the same 
audio device without calling 'Close' in-between, read the section about slave 
devices and the help 'PsychPortAudio [OpenSlave](PsychPortAudio-OpenSlave)?' 
instead for a suitable solution.  
All parameters are optional and have reasonable defaults. 'deviceid' Index to  
select amongst multiple logical audio devices supported by [PortAudio](PortAudio). Defaults  
to whatever the systems default sound device is. Different device id's may  
select the same physical device, but controlled by a different low-level sound  
system. E.g., Windows has about five different sound subsystems. 'mode' Mode of  
operation. Defaults to 1 == sound playback only. Can be set to 2 == audio  
capture, or 3 for simultaneous capture and playback of sound. Note however that  
mode 3 (full duplex) does not work reliably on all sound hardware. On some  
hardware this mode may crash hard! There is also a special monitoring mode == 7,  
which only works for full duplex devices when using the same number of input-  
and outputchannels. This mode allows direct feedback of captured sounds back to  
the speakers with minimal latency and without involvement of your script at all,  
however no sound can be captured during this time and your code mostly doesn't  
have any control over timing etc.   
You can also define a audio device as a master device by adding the value 8 to  
mode. Master devices themselves are not directly used to playback or capture  
sound. Instead one can create (multiple) slave devices that are attached to a  
master device. Each slave can be controlled independently to playback or record  
sound through a subset of the channels of the master device. This basically  
allows to virtualize a soundcard. See help for subfunction 'OpenSlave' for more  
info.  
'reqlatencyclass' Allows to select how aggressive [PsychPortAudio](PsychPortAudio) should be about  
minimizing sound latency and getting good deterministic timing, i.e. how to  
trade off latency vs. system load and playing nicely with other sound  
applications on the system. Level 0 means: Don't care about latency or timing  
precision. This mode works always and with all settings, plays nicely with other  
sound applications. Level 1 (the default) means: Try to get the lowest latency  
that is possible under the constraint of reliable playback, freedom of choice  
for all parameters and interoperability with other applications. Level 2 means:  
Take full control over the audio device, even if this causes other sound  
applications to fail or shutdown. Level 3 means: As level 2, but request the  
most aggressive settings for the given device. Level 4: Same as 3, but fail if  
device can't meet the strictest requirements. 'freq' Requested playback/capture  
rate in samples per second (Hz). Defaults to a value that depends on the  
requested latency mode. 'channels' Number of audio channels to use, defaults to  
2 for stereo. If you perform simultaneous playback and recording, you can  
provide a 2 element vector for 'channels', specifying different numbers of  
output channels and input channels. The first element in such a vector defines  
the number of playback channels, the 2nd element defines capture channels. E.g.,  
[2, 1] would define 2 playback channels (stereo) and 1 recording channel. See  
the optional 'selectchannels' argument for selection of physical device channels  
on multi- channel cards.  
'buffersize' requested size and number of internal audio buffers, smaller  
numbers mean lower latency but higher system load and some risk of overloading,  
which would cause audio dropouts. 'suggestedLatency' optional requested latency  
in seconds. [PortAudio](PortAudio) selects internal operating parameters depending on  
sampleRate, suggestedLatency and buffersize as well as device internal  
properties to optimize for low latency output. Best left alone, only here as  
manual override in case all the auto-tuning cleverness fails.  
'selectchannels' optional matrix with mappings of logical channels to device  
channels: If you only want to use a subset of the channels present on your sound  
card, e.g., only 2 playback channels on a 16 channel soundcard, then you'd set  
the 'channels' argument to 2. The 'selectchannels' argument allows you to  
select, e.g.,  which two of the 16 channels to use for playback.  
'selectchannels' is a one row by 'channels' matrix with mappings for pure  
playback or pure capture. For full-duplex mode (playback and capture),  
'selectchannels' must be a 2 rows by max(channels) column matrix. row 1 will  
define playback channel mappings, whereas row 2 will then define capture channel  
mappings. Ideally, the number in the i'th column will define which physical  
device channel will be used for playback or capture of the i'th [PsychPortAudio](PsychPortAudio)  
channel (the i'th row of your sound matrix), but note various significant  
limitations on MS-Windows! Numbering of physical device channels starts with  
zero! Example: Both, playback and simultaneous recording are requested and  
'channels' equals 2, ie. two playback channels and two capture channels. If  
you'd specify 'selectchannels' as [0, 6 ; 12, 14], then playback would happen to  
device channels zero and six, sound would be captured from device channels 12  
and 14.  
Limitations: Please note that 'selectchannels' is currently only supported on  
macOS and on Windows WASAPI and only with some sound cards in some  
configurations. The parameter is silently ignored on non-capable  
hardware/driver/operating system software, or in unsupported configurations,  
e.g., it will do nothing on Linux, or on Windows with other sound backends than  
WASAPI. On Windows, channel mapping only works for sound playback, not for sound  
capture. On Windows, you can only select which physical sound channels are used,  
but not to which logical sound channel they are assigned. This means that  
effectively the entries in the 'selectchannels' row vector will get sorted in  
ascending order, e.g., a vector of [12, 0, 4, 2] for a 4 channel setup will be  
interpreted as if it were [0, 2, 4, 12]! This is a limitation of the Windows  
sound system, nothing we could do about it.  
All these limitations of 'selectchannels' make your scripts quite non-portable  
to different operating systems and sound cards if you choose to use this  
parameter, so use with caution!  
  
'specialFlags' Optional flags: Default to zero, can be or'ed or added together  
with the following flags/settings:  
1 = Never prime output stream. By default the output stream is primed. Don't  
bother if you don't know what this means.  
2 = Always clamp audio data to the valid -1.0 to 1.0 range. Clamping is enabled  
by default.  
4 = Never clamp audio data.  
8 = Always dither output audio data. By default, dithering is enabled in normal  
mode, and disabled in low-latency mode. Dithering adds a stochastic noise  
pattern to the least significant bit of each output sample to reduce the impact  
of audio quantization artifacts. Dithering can improve signal to noise ratio and  
quality of output sound, but it is more compute intense and it could change very  
low-level properties of the audio signal, because what you hear is not exactly  
what you specified.  
16 = Never dither audio data, not even in normal mode.  
  
  


###See also:
Close [GetDeviceSettings](PsychPortAudio-GetDeviceSettings)
