# [PsychPaidSupportAndServices](PsychPaidSupportAndServices)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychDocumentation](PsychDocumentation)

  
If you require priority support regarding Psychtoolbox, or custom feature  
development (or if you want to buy a Psychtoolbox themed coffee mug, bag or shirt)  
go to the following website which provides such services:  
  
https://www.psychtoolbox.net  
  
For priority support on the user forum or [GitHub](GitHub) issue tracker, buy a  
"community membership with priority support".  
  
1. As part of your purchase, you will receive a document - an invoice - with a  
   printed "Order Id" or "Order no.", and a printed "License key".  
  
2. Next you can run \*this\* function [PsychPaidSupportAndServices](PsychPaidSupportAndServices) in Octave or  
   Matlab. The function will ask you if you need priority support and do have  
   an active license key to prove your community membership. Answer "y" for yes.  
  
3. Next the function will ask you about your "Order Id" and "License key".  
   Please enter that info that you got from step 1.  
  
4. The function will print out an "authentication token", a string of letters and  
   numbers. Now you can post your question on the Psychtoolbox user forum at  
   https://psychtoolbox.discourse.group or open a new issue for bugs and feature  
   requests on our [GitHub](GitHub) issue tracker at https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/issues  
  
   Please add the "authentication token" to your forum question or [GitHub](GitHub) issue.  
   This will prove to us that you deserve priority support for your question or  
   issue. Please note that initial activation of your license key may take 5-10  
   days after date of purchase, so do not buy the priority support last minute,  
   when the "house is already burning", but ahead of time, like you would do  
   with a fire insurance.  
  
  
### For more detailed background information about Psychtoolbox's need for funding, read on:  
  
Continued development, improvement, maintenance and support of  
Psychtoolbox itself, and also improvement of the various open-source  
software components on which Psychtoolbox and other neuroscience toolkits  
(e.g., [PsychoPy)](PsychoPy)) critically depend, including improvements to the Linux  
operating system as the strongest and most high quality foundation for  
demanding stimulation and data collection paradigms, requires a lot of  
highly qualified and highly focused work.  
  
This work is currently (year 2006 - present) mostly carried out by Mario  
Kleiner, who is now employed to do this work by the Medical Innovations  
Incubator [GmbH](GmbH) (MII) in Tuebingen, Germany ( https://www.mi-incubator.com ).  
The MII belongs by 100% to the non-profit foundation for medical  
innovations ( http://www.mi-foundation.org ) in Tuebingen.  
  
In order to fund Mario's work and provide him with the resources to do  
this job, the MII offers different types of paid services around  
Psychtoolbox and the use of Linux for neuroscience, among them a  
"Psychtoolbox community membership with priority support".  
  
Your lab can now financially contribute to Psychtoolbox sustainability,  
upkeep and continued improvement, by once a year buying such a community  
membership for a modest fee. This membership entitles you to some  
priority support for questions regarding efficient use of Psychtoolbox,  
questions regarding the resolution of issues you may have with it, fixing  
of bugs you may encounter, and feature requests. MII also offers paid  
feature development and other commercial services.  
  
Please visit the following website, operated by MII, for our offering of  
commercial development services, and for the community membership with  
paid priority support:  
  
  
https://www.psychtoolbox.net  
  
  
The membership allows you to get your voice heard by the developers  
regarding future feature development, as well as preferential treatment  
on the public Psychtoolbox user forum and [GitHub](GitHub) issue tracker. Spare  
income generated by your membership fee, that does not have to be used  
to process priority requests made individually by you, will be used to  
fund general development and upkeep of Psychtoolbox and its ecosystem. In  
other words, it contributes to / acts as an insurance that allows  
Psychtoolbox to be around and in good shape years into the future.  
  
To clarify: Psychtoolbox itself will stay freely downloadable and usable  
by anyone, and stay fully accessible as open-source software, by anyone  
for any purpose. Anybody able and willing to contribute code and ideas of  
sufficiently high quality is invited to contribute to the open-source  
code, the documentation on our public community website and Wiki  
http://psychtoolbox.org, and to participate and help each other on the  
public community forum https://psychtoolbox.discourse.group.  
  
Faster support on the forum or the bug trackers, or of any support at all  
in times of high developer workload will be reserved to paying community  
members.  
  
Thanks for your participation and support!  
  




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/PsychPaidSupportAndServices.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/PsychPaidSupportAndServices.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/PsychPaidSupportAndServices.m</code>
</div>

