docs/PsychDocumentation.md, before:

# [PsychDocumentation](PsychDocumentation)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychDocumentation](PsychDocumentation)

[PsychDocumentation](PsychDocumentation) -- Bits of documentation for Psychtoolbox  
  
This folder contains help files and info on different topics  
related to [PTBs](PTBs) use, technical implementation and troubleshooting.  
  
[ConserveVRAMSettings](ConserveVRAMSettings)   - Explanation of some flags that you can use to  
                         enable special workarounds in [Screen](Screen)() for  
                         broken graphics drivers or hardware.  
  
[ECVP2010Poster](ECVP2010Poster)\_VisualTimingPrecision.pdf - Poster about the visual  
                         stimulus onset timing and timestamping precision  
                         of Psychtoolbox tested on different system  
                         configurations. Presented at ECVP 2010. This  
                         version adds multiple pages of comments and  
                         bonus information. It also contains a few more  
                         datapoints collected after ECVP.  
  
[[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer))              - Installation instructions for the [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer))  
                         media framework.  
  
[HybridGraphics](HybridGraphics)         - The state of hybrid graphics laptop support and  
                         how to use them with proper timing.  
  
[LinuxGameMode](LinuxGameMode)          - How to setup Linux performance optimizations via "[GameMode](GameMode)".  
  
Oculus\_Health\_and\_Safety\_Warnings.pdf - Info about how to use the Oculus  
                         VR virtual reality headsets safely.  
  
[InstallKinect](InstallKinect)          - Installation instructions for the Kinect  
                         drivers.  
  
[UseTheSource](UseTheSource)           - How to get access to the Psychtoolbox source code.  
  
[ProgrammingTips](ProgrammingTips).html   - A very incomplete programming manual.  
  
[SyncTrouble](SyncTrouble)            - Problem with synchronization to the vertical  
                         retrace or display timing, and how to resolve  
                         them.  
  
[MirrorMode](MirrorMode)             - Special considerations regarding the use or  
                         non-use of display mirror mode on multi display  
                         setups or Laptops.  
  
[MultiDisplaySetups](MultiDisplaySetups)     - Info on how to handle and use multi display setups.  
  
[AntiAliasing](AntiAliasing)           - Psychtoolbox facilities for anti-aliased drawing and  
                         how to use them properly.  
  
[BeampositionQueries](BeampositionQueries)    - Some technical information on how stimulus onset  
                         timing is determined by the [Screen](Screen)('[Flip](Flip)') command,  
                         and how PTB tests your setup for proper timing and  
                         synchronization with vertical retrace.  
  
[VRRSupport](VRRSupport)             - How to set up and use variable refresh rate (VRR) displays.  
  




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/Contents.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/Contents.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/Contents.m</code>
</div>

{{category}}

Commit message:

Documentation update for Psychtoolbox 3.0.17 initial release.
- Basic Vulkan support.
- HDR support on Linux and Windows.
- CSC improvements.
- ColorCal-II support for regular measurement infra.
- UHD/HDR movie playback on Linux and Windows.
- OpenEXR support and sample images.
- OpenGL 4.6 MOGL support.
- GStreamer requirements update.
- Improved installer/updater.
- Launch of user-facing business model.
- Brightside deprecation.
- Misc other.

docs/PsychDocumentation.md, after:

# [PsychDocumentation](PsychDocumentation)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychDocumentation](PsychDocumentation)

[PsychDocumentation](PsychDocumentation) -- Bits of documentation for Psychtoolbox  
  
This folder contains help files and info on different topics  
related to [PTBs](PTBs) use, technical implementation and troubleshooting.  
  
Note that you can now financially contribute to Psychtoolbox sustainability,  
upkeep and continued improvement by buying a community membership, which  
also includes some priority support for questions regarding its use, or  
issues you may have with it. We also offer paid feature development and  
other useful commercial services.  
  
Please type 'PsychPaidSupportAndServices' to learn more.  
  
  
[ConserveVRAMSettings](ConserveVRAMSettings)   - Explanation of some flags that you can use to  
                         enable special workarounds in [Screen](Screen)() for  
                         broken graphics drivers or hardware.  
  
[ECVP2010Poster](ECVP2010Poster)\_VisualTimingPrecision.pdf - Poster about the visual  
                         stimulus onset timing and timestamping precision  
                         of Psychtoolbox tested on different system  
                         configurations. Presented at ECVP 2010. This  
                         version adds multiple pages of comments and  
                         bonus information. It also contains a few more  
                         datapoints collected after ECVP.  
  
[[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer))              - Installation instructions for the [[GStreamer](GStreamer)][(GStreamer)]((GStreamer))  
                         media framework.  
  
[HybridGraphics](HybridGraphics)         - The state of hybrid graphics laptop support and  
                         how to use them with proper timing.  
  
[LinuxGameMode](LinuxGameMode)          - How to setup Linux performance optimizations via "[GameMode](GameMode)".  
  
Oculus\_Health\_and\_Safety\_Warnings.pdf - Info about how to use the Oculus  
                         VR virtual reality headsets safely.  
  
[InstallKinect](InstallKinect)          - Installation instructions for the Kinect  
                         drivers.  
  
[UseTheSource](UseTheSource)           - How to get access to the Psychtoolbox source code.  
  
[ProgrammingTips](ProgrammingTips).html   - A very incomplete programming manual.  
  
[PsychPaidSupportAndServices](PsychPaidSupportAndServices) - Our commercial support and service offerings.  
  
[SyncTrouble](SyncTrouble)            - Problem with synchronization to the vertical  
                         retrace or display timing, and how to resolve  
                         them.  
  
[MirrorMode](MirrorMode)             - Special considerations regarding the use or  
                         non-use of display mirror mode on multi display  
                         setups or Laptops.  
  
[MultiDisplaySetups](MultiDisplaySetups)     - Info on how to handle and use multi display setups.  
  
[AntiAliasing](AntiAliasing)           - Psychtoolbox facilities for anti-aliased drawing and  
                         how to use them properly.  
  
[BeampositionQueries](BeampositionQueries)    - Some technical information on how stimulus onset  
                         timing is determined by the [Screen](Screen)('[Flip](Flip)') command,  
                         and how PTB tests your setup for proper timing and  
                         synchronization with vertical retrace.  
  
[VRRSupport](VRRSupport)             - How to set up and use variable refresh rate (VRR) displays.  
  




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/Contents.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/Contents.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/Contents.m</code>
</div>

{{category}}
