docs/PsychtoolboxVersion.md, before:

# [PsychtoolboxVersion](PsychtoolboxVersion)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychBasic](PsychBasic)

OS X, Windows, Linux: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
[versionString, versionStructure]=[PsychtoolboxVersion](PsychtoolboxVersion)  
  
Return a string identifying this release of the Psychtoolbox.  
The first three numbers identify the base version of Psychtoolbox:  
  
- Leftmost: Increments indicate a disruptive change in the feature  
set and design of the software, by abrupt introduction of design changes.  
This should never happen, as this would mean a completely new product,  
entirely incompatible with the old software.  
  
- Middle: Increments indicate significant enhancements or changes in  
functionality. This will usually only happen every couple of years at  
most.  
  
- Rightmost: A counter to distinguish multiple releases having the same  
leftmost and middle version numbers. This happens if there are backwards  
incompatible changes to the programming interface or functionality which  
may require code adjustments in user code. It also happens if we cancel  
support for platforms (Matlab/Octave versions, operating system versions,  
processor architectures etc.). This happens occassionally.  
  
Numeric values of the three integer fields contained in versionString are  
available in fields of the second return argument, "versionStructure".  
  
### The field 'Flavor' defines the subtype of Psychtoolbox being used:  
  
\* beta: An experimental release that is already tested by the developers,  
but not yet sufficiently tested or proven in the field. Beta releases  
contain lots of new and experimental features that may be useful to you  
but that may change slightly in behaviour or syntax in the final release,  
making it necessary for you to adapt your code after a software update.  
Beta releases are known to be imperfect and fixing bugs in them is not a  
high priority.  The term 'current' is a synonym for 'beta'. Beta releases  
are the only releases we provide at this point.  
  
\* trunk: Development prototypes, for testing and debugging by developers  
and really adventuruous users, not for production use!  
  
\* Psychtoolbox-x.y.z: Old, no longer supported Psychtoolbox versions.  
  
\* Debian package: A Psychtoolbox provided by GNU/Debian or [NeuroDebian](NeuroDebian).  
  
The revision number and the provided URL allows you to visit the developer  
website in the Internet and get direct access to all development logs  
regarding your working copy of Psychtoolbox.  
  
Be aware that execution of the [PsychtoolboxVersion](PsychtoolboxVersion) command can take a  
lot of time (in the order of multiple seconds to 1 minute).  
  
Most Psychtoolbox mex files now provide a built-in 'Version' command  
which returns version for themselves.  The version string for the  
built-in version numbers contains a fourth numeric field named "build".  
The build number is a unique serial number.  Mex files distinquished only  
by build numbers were compiled from identical C source files.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
see also: [Screen](Screen)('Version')  




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychBasic/PsychtoolboxVersion.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychBasic/PsychtoolboxVersion.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychBasic/PsychtoolboxVersion.m</code>
</div>

Commit message:

Documentation update for Psychtoolbox 3.0.17 initial release.
- Basic Vulkan support.
- HDR support on Linux and Windows.
- CSC improvements.
- ColorCal-II support for regular measurement infra.
- UHD/HDR movie playback on Linux and Windows.
- OpenEXR support and sample images.
- OpenGL 4.6 MOGL support.
- GStreamer requirements update.
- Improved installer/updater.
- Launch of user-facing business model.
- Brightside deprecation.
- Misc other.

docs/PsychtoolboxVersion.md, after:

# [PsychtoolboxVersion](PsychtoolboxVersion)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychBasic](PsychBasic)

  
[versionString, versionStructure] = [PsychtoolboxVersion](PsychtoolboxVersion)  
  
Return a string identifying this release of the Psychtoolbox.  
The first three numbers identify the base version of Psychtoolbox:  
  
- Leftmost (major version): Increments indicate a disruptive change in  
the feature set, application programming interfaces or core design of the  
software, by abrupt introduction of drastic design changes. This should  
never happen, as this would mean a completely new product, entirely  
incompatible with the old software.  
  
- Middle (minor version): Increments indicate very significant  
enhancements or changes in functionality. This would for example happen  
if there would be backwards incompatible changes to the programming  
interface or functionality which may require code adjustments in user  
code or even choosing different hardware or operating systems to run it.  
This will usually only happen every couple of years at most.  
  
- Rightmost (patch level): A counter to distinguish multiple releases  
having the same leftmost and middle version numbers. It increments if we  
cancel support for platforms (Matlab/Octave versions, operating system  
versions, processor architectures etc.). This happens occassionally.  
  
Numeric values of the three integer fields contained in versionString are  
available in fields of the second return argument, "versionStructure".  
  
### The field 'Flavor' defines the subtype of Psychtoolbox being used:  
  
\* beta: The term 'current' is a synonym for 'beta'. Beta releases are the  
only releases we provide at this point. 'Beta' is a historical name, not  
anything is really much of beta quality about them, they are considered  
the most stable and trustworthy releases.  
  
\* trunk: Development prototypes, for testing and debugging by developers  
and really adventureous users, not for production use!  
  
\* Psychtoolbox-x.y.z: Old, no longer supported Psychtoolbox versions.  
  
\* Debian package: A Psychtoolbox provided by GNU/Debian, Ubuntu or [NeuroDebian](NeuroDebian).  
  
The revision number and the provided URL allows you to visit the developer  
website in the Internet and get direct access to all development logs  
regarding your working copy of Psychtoolbox.  
  
Be aware that execution of the [PsychtoolboxVersion](PsychtoolboxVersion) command can take a lot  
of time (in the order of multiple seconds to 1 minute).  
  
Most Psychtoolbox mex files now provide a built-in 'Version' command  
which returns version for themselves.  The version string for the  
built-in version numbers contains a fourth numeric field named "build".  
The build number is a unique serial number.  Mex files distinquished only  
by build numbers were compiled from identical C source files.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
see also: [Screen](Screen)('Version')  




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychBasic/PsychtoolboxVersion.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychBasic/PsychtoolboxVersion.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychBasic/PsychtoolboxVersion.m</code>
</div>
