docs/RetinaDisplay.md, before:

# [RetinaDisplay](RetinaDisplay)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychDocumentation](PsychDocumentation)

[RetinaDisplay](RetinaDisplay) - How to deal with [HiDPI](HiDPI) "Retina" displays.  
  
On Linux with the standard X11 display system, no special measures are  
needed and [HiDPI](HiDPI) "Retina" displays should just work like regular displays  
as far as Psychtoolbox is concerned.  
  
On Apple OSX, Psychtoolbox by default will emulate a standard resolution  
display when used on a Retina display to keep old user code working which  
was written before the era of Retina displays, or with Psychtoolbox  
3.0.11 or earlier versions. If you want to make full use of the native  
high resolution of your Retina display, use the imaging pipeline task  
[PsychImaging](PsychImaging)('AddTask', 'General', 'UseRetinaResolution');. This will  
expose the full resolution but also require more graphics performance  
from your graphics card.  
  
On MS-Windows the situation can be difficult, depending on the Windows  
version and Matlab version in use, and potentially on what other  
applications are running and their status with respect to [HiDPI](HiDPI) Retina  
displays:  
  
On Windows XP and earlier versions, stuff will just work, but your  
application windows will look tiny when displayed on a Retina display.  
  
On Windows Vista and Windows 7, Psychtoolbox disables the DWM (Desktop  
Window Manager) by default for fullscreen onscreen windows. This will  
ensure optimal display timing precision and avoid Retina display trouble,  
essentially turning your system into a Windows XP system. DPI aware  
applications will continue to display correctly in such a configuration,  
but non DPI aware apps may appear tiny and difficult to use on Retina  
displays. All versions of Matlab older than R2015b are not DPI aware and  
will likely suffer from this problems.  
  
On Windows 8 and later, Psychtoolbox can not disable the DWM. If you  
display a Psychtoolbox window on a standard resolution display, stuff  
will probably work. If you try to display on a [HiDPI](HiDPI) Retina display then  
you will need to make sure that you either use GNU/Octave, or you use a  
Matlab version that is DPI aware, ie., at least R2015b. You will probably  
also have to make sure that no other non-DPI aware application is running  
or at least not displaying on your stimulus monitor, as such applications  
would trigger use of the DWM and thereby cause stimulus timing problems.  
  
Additionally, on Windows 8 you must make sure that the stimulation  
display is the designated "primary display", so Windows 8 DPI settings,  
which always apply to the primary display, thereby apply to your stimulus  
display. Applications displayed on other than the primary display will be  
subject to DWM scaling if those other displays do not have the same DPI  
setting as the primary display. A running Matlab or Octave would trigger  
harmful use of the DWM on such a non-matching display. In general it is a  
good idea for timing precision to make your stimulus display the  
designated primary display (this can be set in the display settings  
control display, maybe via a "Make this my main display" checkbox).  
  
If you must use a system setup with Retina display and a version of  
Matlab, or of Windows 8 or later, that does not allow you to circumvent  
or solve these problems, then there exists also the option to either  
override Windows DPI settings (somewhere under display control panel,  
advanced settings or "Make text appear bigger or smaller" - Try a Google  
search to find it) - this would get rid of DPI related timing problems at  
the expense of applications that display too small on your Retina  
display. Another option is to disable DPI scaling for all applications  
(including Matlab!) which are supposed to display on the [HiDPI](HiDPI) / Retina  
display. This will avoid rescaling and triggering the DWM, at the expense  
of a too small appearance of those applications [GUIs](GUIs) on the Retina  
display. You can do this by right-clicking on the applications icon, then  
selecting the "Properties" item from the context menu, then selecting the  
"Compatibility" tab in the property dialog. In that tab, check the field  
called "Disable display scaling on high DPI settings", then click "OK" to  
apply the new settings and restart the application.  
  
Windows is not only troublesome for proper visual stimulation and  
stimulation timing in itself, it can be especially troublesome when used  
with [HiDPI](HiDPI) / Retina displays. Therefore it might be a good idea to switch  
to Linux, or if you have to use Windows, to stick to Windows-7, or if you  
have to use a later Windows version, upgrade to Windows 10. It is  
probably also a good idea to then limit yourself to a single display  
setup and/or make sure that only DPI aware applications are running on  
this setup.  
  
Good luck!  
  




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/RetinaDisplay.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/RetinaDisplay.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/RetinaDisplay.m</code>
</div>

Commit message:

Update Docs for Psychtoolbox 3.0.15 release.

docs/RetinaDisplay.md, after:

# [RetinaDisplay](RetinaDisplay)
##### >[Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[PsychDocumentation](PsychDocumentation)

[RetinaDisplay](RetinaDisplay) - How to deal with [HiDPI](HiDPI) "Retina" displays.  
  
On Linux with the standard X11 display system, no special measures are  
needed and [HiDPI](HiDPI) "Retina" displays should just work like regular displays  
as far as Psychtoolbox is concerned.  
  
On Apple OSX, Psychtoolbox by default will emulate a standard resolution  
display when used on a Retina display to keep old user code working which  
was written before the era of Retina displays, or with Psychtoolbox  
3.0.11 or earlier versions. If you want to make full use of the native  
high resolution of your Retina display, use the imaging pipeline task  
[PsychImaging](PsychImaging)('AddTask', 'General', 'UseRetinaResolution');. This will  
expose the full resolution but also require more graphics performance  
from your graphics card.  
  
On MS-Windows the situation can be difficult, depending on the Windows  
version and Matlab version in use, and potentially on what other  
applications are running and their status with respect to [HiDPI](HiDPI) Retina  
displays:  
  
On Windows XP and earlier versions, stuff will just work, but your  
application windows will look tiny when displayed on a Retina display.  
  
On Windows Vista and Windows 7, Psychtoolbox disables the DWM (Desktop  
Window Manager) by default for fullscreen onscreen windows. This will  
ensure optimal display timing precision and avoid Retina display trouble,  
essentially turning your system into a Windows XP system. DPI aware  
applications will continue to display correctly in such a configuration,  
but non DPI aware apps may appear tiny and difficult to use on Retina  
displays. All versions of Matlab older than R2015b are not DPI aware and  
will likely suffer from this problems.  
  
On Windows 8 and later, Psychtoolbox can not disable the DWM. If you  
display a Psychtoolbox window on a standard resolution display, stuff  
will probably work. If you try to display on a [HiDPI](HiDPI) Retina display then  
you will need to make sure that you either use GNU/Octave, or you use a  
Matlab version that is DPI aware, ie., at least R2015b. You will probably  
also have to make sure that no other non-DPI aware application is running  
or at least not displaying on your stimulus monitor, as such applications  
would trigger use of the DWM and thereby cause stimulus timing problems.  
  
Additionally, on Windows 8 you must make sure that the stimulation  
display is the designated "primary display", so Windows 8 DPI settings,  
which always apply to the primary display, thereby apply to your stimulus  
display. Applications displayed on other than the primary display will be  
subject to DWM scaling if those other displays do not have the same DPI  
setting as the primary display. A running Matlab or Octave would trigger  
harmful use of the DWM on such a non-matching display. In general it is a  
good idea for timing precision to make your stimulus display the  
designated primary display (this can be set in the display settings  
control display, maybe via a "Make this my main display" checkbox).  
  
If you must use a system setup with Retina display and a version of  
Matlab, or of Windows 8 or later, that does not allow you to circumvent  
or solve these problems, then there exists also the option to either  
override Windows DPI settings (somewhere under display control panel,  
advanced settings or "Make text appear bigger or smaller" - Try a Google  
search to find it) - this would get rid of DPI related timing problems at  
the expense of applications that display too small on your Retina  
display. Another option is to disable DPI scaling for all applications  
(including Matlab!) which are supposed to display on the [HiDPI](HiDPI) / Retina  
display. This will avoid rescaling and triggering the DWM, at the expense  
of a too small appearance of those applications [GUIs](GUIs) on the Retina  
display. You can do this by right-clicking on the applications icon, then  
selecting the "Properties" item from the context menu, then selecting the  
"Compatibility" tab in the property dialog. In that tab, check the field  
called "Disable display scaling on high DPI settings", then click "OK" to  
apply the new settings and restart the application.  
  
See also Psychtoolbox forum message \#23414 for another oddity that one user  
needed to do to fix [HiDPI](HiDPI) on a Windows multi-display setup:  
  
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/PSYCHTOOLBOX/conversations/messages/23414  
  
Windows is not only troublesome for proper visual stimulation and  
stimulation timing in itself, it can be especially troublesome when used  
with [HiDPI](HiDPI) / Retina displays. Therefore it might be a good idea to switch  
to Linux, or if you have to use Windows, to stick to Windows-7, or if you  
have to use a later Windows version, upgrade to Windows 10. It is  
probably also a good idea to then limit yourself to a single display  
setup and/or make sure that only DPI aware applications are running on  
this setup.  
  
Good luck!  
  




<div class="code_header" style="text-align:right;">
  <span style="float:left;">Path&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> <span class="counter">Retrieve <a href=
  "https://raw.github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/RetinaDisplay.m">current version from GitHub</a> | View <a href=
  "https://github.com/Psychtoolbox-3/Psychtoolbox-3/commits/beta/Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/RetinaDisplay.m">changelog</a></span>
</div>
<div class="code">
  <code>Psychtoolbox/PsychDocumentation/RetinaDisplay.m</code>
</div>
