docs/Screen-NominalFrameRate.md, before:

# [Screen('NominalFrameRate')](Screen-NominalFrameRate) 
##### [Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[Screen](Screen).{mex*} subfunction

hz=Screen('NominalFrameRate', windowPtrOrScreenNumber [, mode] [, reqFrameRate]);

Returns or sets the nominal video frame rate in Hz, as reported by your  
computer's video driver. 'FrameRate' is an alias for 'NominalFrameRate'. By  
default, this function returns the nominal framerate, as reported by your  
operating system, rounded to the closest integral value. If you set the optional  
'mode' flag to 1, then the framerate is returned without rounding to the closest  
integer, but at floating point precision, on systems that support this [(MacOS]((MacOS)-X  
and Linux). GNU/Linux only: If you set the 'mode' flag to 2 and specify  
'reqFrameRate', then Psychtoolbox will try to change the current video refresh  
rate of the display: If 'reqFrameRate' is above 10.0, [Screen](Screen) will try to switch  
to a framerate as close as possible to 'reqFrameRate' Hz. If 'reqFrameRate' is a  
positive or negative value smaller than 10.0, then the video setting will be  
changed by 'reqFrameRate' system dependent units. The new settings that would  
result are validated to make sure they are safe for your display. Invalid  
settings are rejected, returning a value of -1. On systems other than Linux, 0  
is always returned to signal failure. On successfull framerate change, the new  
resulting nominal framerate is returned with double precision. NOTE:  
'reqFrameRate' must be pretty close to the initial framerate, e.g. initial +/- 2  
Hz. It is not possible to apply big changes, e.g., from 60 Hz to 75 Hz. This  
function is meant for fine-tuning the video refresh interval for the purpose of  
synchronizing different displays or the display and other stimulation- or  
acquisition devices. You can compensate for small phase-shifts or deviations...  
Due to manufacturing tolerances and other noise in your system, the real monitor  
refresh interval can differ slightly from the nominal values returned by this  
function. To query the real, measured framerate use [Screen](Screen)('GetFlipInterval')  
instead.   


###See also:
[FrameRate](Screen-FrameRate) [GetFlipInterval](Screen-GetFlipInterval)

Commit message:

Update online docs for 3.0.22.0 release.
Add lots of files which were missing in the past for some reason.

docs/Screen-NominalFrameRate.md, after:

# [Screen('NominalFrameRate')](Screen-NominalFrameRate) 
##### [Psychtoolbox](Psychtoolbox)>[Screen](Screen).{mex*} subfunction

hz=Screen('NominalFrameRate', windowPtrOrScreenNumber [, mode=0][, reqFrameRate]);

Returns or sets the nominal video frame rate in Hz, as reported by your  
computer's video driver.  
'FrameRate' is an alias for 'NominalFrameRate'. By default, this function  
returns the nominal framerate, as reported by your operating system, rounded to  
the closest integral value. If you set the optional 'mode' flag to 1, then the  
framerate is returned without rounding to the closest integer, but at floating  
point precision, on systems that support this (macOS and Linux).  
GNU/Linux/X11 only: If you set the 'mode' flag to 2 and specify 'reqFrameRate',  
then [Screen](Screen) will try to quickly switch to a framerate as close as possible to  
'reqFrameRate' Hz. Invalid settings are rejected, returning a value of -1. On  
failure, 0 is returned to signal inability to switch refresh. On systems other  
than Linux, 0 is always returned to signal failure. On successfull framerate  
change the new resulting nominal framerate is returned with double precision.  
NOTE: This function allows fast and almost seamless video refresh rate switching  
on AMD graphics cards when used to drive a [FreeSync](FreeSync) capable display device. The  
'reqFrameRate' should be within the supported [FreeSync](FreeSync) refresh rate range of  
your display device, or this function may silently fail! On other graphics cards  
or on standard fixed refresh rate displays, this may or may not work, but it  
will likely result in a time consuming video modesetting operation, during which  
the display may go blank for up to multiple seconds.  
One limitation at the moment is that in a multi-display setup, your visual  
stimulation window must be fully or at least predominantly covering the display  
area of the primary video output monitor, as the refresh rate of that monitor  
will be assigned for [Screen](Screen)('[Flip](Flip)', ...) scheduling of stimulus onset time.  
Otherwise only immediate flips at each video refresh cycle will work with  
reliable timing. See 'help VRRSupport' for possibly more background and setup  
info.  
Due to manufacturing tolerances and other noise in your system, the real monitor  
refresh interval can differ slightly from the nominal values returned by this  
function. To query the real, measured framerate use [Screen](Screen)('GetFlipInterval')  
instead.   


###See also:
[FrameRate](Screen-FrameRate) [GetFlipInterval](Screen-GetFlipInterval)
